 Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of Svelte Radio. First one of the year. Not a lot happened over the holidays, but we're going to go through the new stuff anyway. But first, some introductions. I'm Kevin. I run a site called Svelte School, where I teach people about Svelte, and I'm involved in the community side of Svelte as well. Yeah. I'm Sean. I work at AWS on AWS and we are we actually unfixed unbroke the svelte society website recently so i'm proud of that even though i didn't really do much there so shout out to silent works who actually figured out the rotify issue that we had nice i'm anthony i'm the ct of a company called bionk which is a travel and tourism startup in the uk i'm also a svelte core maintainer cool so what have you guys been doing over the holidays oh yeah so we figured we'll start off with like some updates right so i think we some of us got ourselves like christmas presents something i realized actually in catching up with my team at aws is that everyone bought games like the games industry must be huge right now yeah i mean this is not that this is not a surprise but like really because there's nothing else to buy yeah you say games do you mean like board games or do you mean like computer games mostly mostly computer games but also board games i think i think people went for computer games first and then we realized that we like the digital stimulation or whatever it's it's easier to set up computer games yeah have you guys seen the like the cyberpunk game the what cyberpunk looks amazing i'm also very buggy i was actually i'm stadia the bugs are the fun part right like you could record so one of the top posts on reddit the past week was showing off like the amazing detail of the shadowing of cyberpunk and how it like even when you hold the rifle the shadows fall on the rifle and you can you can move around and then a guy kept on walking backwards and the shadow came from a car that was being suspended in the air because the graphics were like screwed up but they're like but the shadows are great so so i mean this is the bit i don't understand because what makes game appealing in my mind the game's appealing games appeal is in its gameplay and how explorable it is and things like that i don know much about games i mean i a linux user right i don really have many games i can install maybe maybe tux racer i don know but guess the point is for me I love bugs in games I think they brilliant They make it much more interesting but I not really a gamer It looks like Cyberpunk looks amazing. I've seen someone stream it on Twitch. It looks incredible to look at. But honestly, from the brief bit that I looked at it for, the game looks like GTA, which is fine in my books because GTA is the one game that I do occasionally play. The graphics look amazing, but the thing for me is I've heard that the AI is just not really there. Like characters don't even have the basic AI you find in games. They just kind of wander around aimlessly into traffic. Like for me, that takes away a lot of what makes GTA appealing in that there's a sense of realism. If I want to just drive around and follow the road rules and interact with people, then I can do that. And if the AI is not working, then that's gone. So it may be a personal thing, but I feel like they're missing a big trick by not having that sort of stuff ready. And it's prior art. it's been done a million times all right so where why can't it just be working right right the the armchair observer's answer is that they rushed it sure yeah sure probably probably the explanation actually yeah but aren't all games rushed simplest answer uh yeah probably true so well i wanted to point people to a resource the gdc youtube channel game dev conference had a really good breakdown of the spider-man ps4 ai where it actually shows you how because spider-man has infinite rendering and you can see people you can theoretically interact with any single pedestrian on the street you could attack them you can talk to them whatever and it's it's a really interesting choreography of choreography of how it's random ai and then the moment you interact with one of them then they're sort of possessed by a different sort of ai and they talk a lot about it and yeah it's it's it's that sounds interesting pretty much as open source as game dev can get without actually sharing the code yeah all right so so you guys treated yourself to to some new uh new presence i heard sure who's first you know by all means you go shot my problem is like i don't i don't have like a full report and and everyone else so i okay i'll the headline is i got a m1 macbook mini sorry a mac mini and that's the first desktop that i purchased ever yeah oh wow because every prior pc that i ever made i actually assembled i bought and assembled and obviously you can do that with Apple right Because hashtag money but yeah unless you go for the Mac pro right But then, yeah, yeah, yeah. Well, so it's, it's a big round trip for me because when I was growing up, I used to treat like PCs as like this, where you get serious work done. And then somewhere along the lines, everyone just transitioned to laptops at work and it became a normal thing. And then I just kind of went with it but this is the first time for me going back intentionally from laptops to desktop and really the justification was that it's just half the price and and i wasn't really moving that much in covid so i think i think that's kind of it there's there's more ports but like i really did struggle with that decision because for twice the desktop price you could get a battery and a keyboard and a screen that's decent value right there so right uh it was it was a real challenge to me as to like what I should get and what I was trying to invest for. But mainly I was just kind of curious about all the all the reports. I definitely felt my main personal laptop, my only personal laptop is from 2017. So it's starting to feel the age a little bit. And particularly one of my pain points is video editing because I do a lot of tutorials and like for work and then for Egghead.io and then sometimes for Svelte. And typically compression is like a one-to-one ratio. Like if you're using ScreenFlow and you're compiling like a one-hour video, you may need like about one hour or maybe one and a half hours to compress that video. So anything that can solve that pain point is good. And then obviously compiling code, if that's any faster, then that's nice as well. And then I heard a lot of fringe benefits. So I think some people in the JavaScript community, like Devin Govitt, but then also maybe, I guess some more famous names like DHH. There's others that have actually jumped on the train. who are failing to come to mind right now. But they're just saying like, just navigating between windows. And I even feel that, that latency. So I think anecdotally, I feel like it is. So I've had it up and running for about four or five days. I feel like it's faster, but then I can't distinguish between that and just like the fact that it's a new computer with less software loaded on it. So that's my report. Fair enough. That's fair enough. I mean, it's almost as portable as a laptop anyway, right? Well, that's free. Right, right. But if you decide to move across the globe back to the US for example you can always bring It easier to bring a Mac mini than a full desktop tower sure so I mean one of the reasons is that you should get a M1 laptop is that the the power consumption is very low but what the point of getting uh there's no point getting a low power consumption if you also end up making a desktop where there's no battery yeah but it is oh I mean the other one the other thing is that there's no need for a fan because apparently the cooling characteristics are very good again like I'm very out of my depth here. I don't know much about CPUs and all that. I just repeat what other people say. And maybe you guys can fill me in on that detail. But I do have my fans spin up. Like right now on this work machine that I'm using, my fans are spinning up. And on the M1, it's just quiet. Yeah, silence is really nice. I mean, so yeah. So I think I did the same sort of thing as Sean. For similar reasons, I think I would really want an Apple M1. Mostly because I don't like Intel. never really have liked Intel or the x86 architecture so for those who don't know Intel chips AMD chips run x86 complex instruction set computing which is a lot more instructions that directly translate to cpu instructions whereas risk which is what arm uses is reduced instruction set computing which is basically less instructions more direct it basically is two different architectures what Intel do in the core series processes to speed things up is they actually translate risk to cisk so inside a core processor is effectively a small arm processor um but obviously that translation has an overhead right so there's a cost involved there so it's just not as fast so being a linux user i can't get an m1 doesn't it doesn't work on there yet because it's very apple proprietary and it's unlikely it ever will not be that i'm hoping that some of the manufacturers sort of jump on the bandwagon and produce their own equivalent and i'm sure they will after a while because there's no way that the x86 architecture can compete now and also because like you know arm is a british company they well they were originally where they're now a holdings company somewhere but risk and arm were invented in britain and when i went to school i grew up on arm processes because it's really what we had in britain at that time um so there's a lot for me to like about arm and i don't have any other intel machines apart from my main machine because of the power of it right because a lot of arm processes are generally tablet or phone processors. So I couldn't buy an Apple M1 even though I really, really wanted to, because I don't want to run a Mac OS X. I want to run Linux. So I've purchased this Asus machine, which is probably about the same sort of size. This runs a Ryzen chipset, which is AMD's new thing, or newish thing, which purports to be a lot faster than Intel's processors,

 the notes on the same architecture with it with exception of the high-end ones it's a very nice small compact machine which is again for sean was mentioning it's nice and compact a bit like a laptop it's portable but also costs the same thing right i spend one and a half grand on a laptop it's desirable for me i'm buying this and this cost me 350 quid right i had some memory i had hard drive right yeah and it's still like just over a third of the price of the laptop and i'm not going anywhere covid uk is completely locked down anyway but i've worked at home for three years anyway so i probably should have done this sooner because my laptop's 2015 so yeah i think a lot of the same sort of reasons um it's a bit weird not going back to a laptop because when i grew up i built a lot of pcs myself from the age of about 14 i was building pcs because it's great fun i was playing games i was running windows when i switched to linux i just started looking at laptops because of portability wandering around the house taking them to work at work it was all windows shop and i wanted to run linux so i took my own laptop to work and i never thought i'd get desktop again because I thought this is so great. It's almost equivalent performance in a little tiny package. It's not as fast, but it's almost as good, right? So yeah, it's another kind of weird twist for me too to have this desktop machine instead of a laptop. But I'm looking forward to it. My disk is arriving later today and then I can plug that in and start setting it up. So I'll have to bring back reports another time on how good it is. Next time, yeah. I got high hopes. I think it'd be interesting to do a count of how many computers per person in your household and then chart that over time. So I have a work machine, I have a personal machine. I have my now my legacy laptop, which I just keep around because the resale value isn't there. I have an iPad and then two phones because I still keep my old iPhone around again because there's no resale value there. So that's like six machines, six computers for one person. And yeah, that's that's massively increased from I used to share like four people to one PC. Right. Yeah. And yeah, it's really this like transition of personal computing. The holy grail is when you can do everything from your phone, right? You don't even need a computer, you just have your phone. It has impracticalities. I don't know if we're there. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I mean, it's, we're definitely not there, but at some point I'm sure something like that's gonna. Well, Ubuntu tried to do that, right? With the, with the crossover thing. So at one point when you could have an Ubuntu phone, you could plug it into your laptop, into your monitor rather, and it would turn into a full desktop machine running up your phone Unfortunately it never succeeded But that was a cool idea and something that i think even apple haven really sort of gone that far yet would be interesting to see i mean i think on on the subject of how many pieces you got sean i must have between 20 and 30 i've kind of forgotten what um like raspberry pies don't count okay so then then make it 10 to 20 right okay like it's still not lower and it's just because i kind of a hobbyist and i have machines doing various things around the house and i like building them i like repairing them buying free by cheap and fixing them up i've got two or three behind me they're just mid repair so it's like lots of lots of reasons to have lots of computers but in terms of usability i'm trying to limit to one because i don't like to go onto each machine and not have the files on the other machine and the cloud's wonderful but it's not quite the same you know there is software for that for yeah i was thinking actually so having a desktop and then having a like a if i ever do go for conferences and meetups again having a like a work laptop it forces you to back things up onto the cloud and i actually thought i thought that's pretty good discipline because that means again like it's it's all this you can't keep like proprietary state in your local machine and not commit it no you shouldn't you never should right but but the fact is even if it's even it's in the cloud i've still got to get check out all those projects and do the right links across projects and things like that it's all a little bit of setup but also like dropbox for regular files and stuff like that you know anyway yeah no it's a good idea it's a thought the other thing is i have um i thought i should mention like now i'm non-portable in terms of going to a remote office and working because i've not got a laptop actually what i what i tend to do in the past anyway is take my chromebook with me and then i can basically just rdp or whatever home onto my desktop machine at home so i don't think it's going to change that much really remote desktop is getting better and better and a chromebook's perfect for carrying around one because it's arm-based right it's got super low power requirements so yeah oh for those interested in this topic yeah apparently you can do that with xbox and ps4 but then also stadia is kind of like this whole remote gaming concept but then also what i think is also trending is this remote development like with github code spaces and well it's actually azure code spaces but we branded for github but then also i i just learned about mighty the mighty browser i don't know if guys have heard about this. It's basically Chromium as a mainframe. So you don't run Chrome locally but you just kind of remote in to this thing And apparently it like way faster because they do everything in parallel over there on like a much beefier machine and so so i think we might get to this point where we don have laptops it's just like ipad and a keyboard or like a tablet and a keyboard yeah i know guillermo rauch from for sale actually is living sort of the ipad life right now where he's only ipad and keyboard so yeah it's it's an interesting peek into the future like maybe just nothing's local i mean it's a peak as the future and a past at the same time right because they used to have these these dumb terminals yeah yeah like mainframes and dumb terminals wise terminals at your desk where you remoting into a mainframe machine it's almost like that's the same thing but now that mainframe is the cloud yep and then the local network is is there is the internet yeah it's like we're going in circles and learning a couple of new things every every time around yeah more than a couple probably but should we uh get into to actual uh svelte stuff maybe stuff yeah well that's what we're here for right so that's what this podcast is about yeah i think well i think i think people like people like um like the community aspect in the in the tech we're all interested in new tech that's why we're here yeah yeah definitely so uh so anthony well what's what's new in svelte kit so over christmas i actually kind of felt kind of burnt out so i actually didn't do a huge amount on spell i didn't really look at a computer from about 22nd to the fourth because i just nice i just couldn't face it almost yeah i did loads of diy projects but that's good that's you shouldn't you shouldn't feel bad about it i don't think i do i just i kind of want more of that right i really want to build a house now like i want to literally build a house from scratch after watching a youtube channel that i sort of got into it's like why am i in tech it's a really odd thing yeah that's that's so so random i i started watching this german guy who's building like a tiny tiny house he's he's renovating tiny house yeah yeah it's so fun to watch yeah that's it sorry sorry going no no that's great i mean a tiny house thing is another huge thing actually i'm gonna mention this it's gonna be my pick but i've got too many picks now i've got this this great hammer as well so so so for my pick i was gonna have uh perkins brother builders youtube channel because a bit of a sort of deviation from our usual youtube watching which is crime and murder and things like that perkins brother builders are a couple of brothers who've run a company called perkins brothers builders oddly enough and they they're building houses in north carolina and they been um sort of videoing it because they thought well we build houses all the time and it really fun and interesting and not everyone gets to do it so why don we film it and talk you through the process of the decisions we make whilst we doing it and stuff and you can kind of watch the channel and watch some of their house builds and go away thinking i actually do this myself because they make it look so easy but they also tell you all the ins and outs and the decisions they make and stuff so it's kind of really inspired me i actually really would like to i'd do a free internship with them go and move there for a bit right and just build houses for free with them and i could just be paid experience it's pretty cool i'd probably make a massive hash up right but you'd have a lot of fun at the same time though is there anything you've managed to well read about it since you know the one thing i want to say about svelke actually is that we have this new contributor he's not made himself public on the organization yet so i don't know whether he does or doesn't want to be mentioned but i'm not going to do it for now but what i'll say is this person has really sort of jumped in and it's given us all these amazing features and bug fixes and sort of completing a bunch of the sort of outstanding tasks we need to get into the beta phase. So it's looking really good right now. It's looking really nice. And just it's really cool when you see someone who jumps in like that and sort of gets involved really quickly and up to speed quickly. Svelte's been one of those notorious projects where it's quite difficult to get up to speed because it is quite a complex thing that it does. Like this ASTs and compilation is difficult. So it's really interesting to see someone jump in and sort of pick up the ball on that. So, you know, and of course, Rich is launching projects with it right now. So he's also very eagerly sort of getting everything up to speed. So, yeah, no promises again, AT, everything like that. But we are, over the Christmas period, we took a few leaps and bounds in the right direction. So it's looking good. Yeah. And it's worth mentioning probably the Language Tools repository as well. They've had a major release. So they're on 2.00 now, I believe. I don't, I can't say what's gone into it. I don't know what's gone into it. But I know that it was quite a big chunk of work. So it's well done to them to getting that to where it is. We should probably have Simon on again. We definitely should have Simon on, yeah. To talk about the new stuff because this is not my strong strength. No, and as a non-TypeScript user, I don't really benefit from much of this stuff. I get this sort of VS Code highlighting and help, but I don't really benefit directly from it. But yeah, I mean, that's probably one of our most busy repositories because it's just constant improvement from there. The people in language tools are just all over it. It's brilliant. Yep, yep. Doing great work. And then, as usual, things are happening in Sapperland as well, right? Like some bug fixes and stuff like that. Yeah. It's not a ban.

 done yet no no so i think we're going to cut a 0.29 release um ben's ben's sort of triaging things to go into that release now that probably will be like the final release um because it doesn't make sense to kind of start adding features to that at this point it's better if we have the resource we have focused on on svelte kit so that 029 will be probably the final sapper release if there's anything urgent needs to go into there probably now's the time to speak actually one more thing about SvelteKit I thought I'd mention because it's now Skypack enabled because it's based on Snowpack because it's now Skypack enabled you can do the fancy no NPM just specify URLs to Skypack repositories and it will download the depths and build them in which is pretty interesting so yeah if you haven't looked at Skypack have a look at that because that's pretty novel So that means Svelte is demo compatible? Yeah it sounds like it I don't know but it definitely moves in the right direction it definitely is a step forward I think because SvelteKit will be almost abstracted from Node itself, and it'll be more of a kit around potentially deploying to Node or Cloudflare workers or whatever else you want to do, I don't see why Denno wouldn't be another platform for that, right? It just needs an adapter, like a compatibility layer. It doesn't tie you as much as Sapper did to Node anymore. That's good. It sounds kind of like the ESM modules, right? Yeah, well, I mean, yeah. Actually, I don't know. That's a good question. I mean, obviously, Rich is very all over ESM, so quite possibly it's very focused on that. All right. But yeah. Yeah, I feel like the ESM momentum is finally coming along. I think Node 14 being... Node 14 is where ESM is unflagged, I think, if I'm not mistaken. Because I've been following Miles Warrens, who's working really hard. I don't know why it was so hard, but it was hard. Yeah, and then I saw Sindresaurus is moving all his... stuff to esm only right meaning he he will he will break people who like uh assume node polyfills and stuff like that yeah it's uh it's it's really coming along probably 2021 2021 is kind of the year of esm and uh pretty good bet to make i didn't really think about that at the start like this time last year yeah big change yeah yeah we should we should probably do some predictions for 2021 later in the show or maybe next time I guess I could also oh yeah I mean so there was a new blog post is that what you going to talk about yeah I was going to talk about like the community showcases there So just to update people Dan Sandoval he kind of like taken over as like the official Svelte community newsletter maintainer There are other Svelte newsletters that are run independently, but this is kind of like the official one that I guess is published on the Svelte blog. So it's official. And he put out a new version on January 1st. Yep. Lots of fun stuff in there. Yeah. What happened with Svelte component typed? I saw the PR. I didn't actually understand it. Yeah, I have no idea. What PR are we talking about here? No, so it's like a minor release that replaces Svelte component with Svelte component typed. And it's something to do with the language tools, I guess. I don't know. That might be what's gone into 2.0.0. Right. But I don't know. Again, I just don't use TypeScript, so I don't see all this kind of stuff. If you're doing the TypeScript. I think we should have Simon on. Yeah. it'll probably help yeah i agree cool uh and then yeah it's a bunch of community stuff right yeah yeah so there's this did you see the the listen addict site i thought that was pretty neat no it's uh it's like a site that notifies you when people have new talks so i could probably like subscribe to to you sean and then i'll i'll get pings whenever you post new when you're doing conference talks and stuff i would i would subscribe to that just to put it on my own site like here's my latest talks it's not bad actually it has a feed of some sort that'd be really cool yeah yeah yeah it's built in built in svelte of course so i know exactly how i would commercialize this because i've been thinking about this because i used to work in equity research and finance and you have to keep up on the latest news regarding your stock and guess what like your ceo is on podcasts talking about pretty material things to do with their strategy so it would be nice to get notifications about when when they're on previously i think the best way is to set like a google alert but that's pretty noisy so a dedicated tool like this would be pretty helpful and these guys can pay money yeah wow probably a good good idea for for whoever built it yeah i learned recently that ikea are using svelte which is which is surprising yeah on the international site like the ikea.com right yeah it's weird because like all the all these national sites or for me at least all the non-British sites or equivalents of our sites use Svelte and our native ones don't. So like Decathlon for instance in the UK is still using their legacy stuff And all the European ones the ones I looked at are all using svelte it interesting yeah svelte is is blowing up though recently it feels like at least it it definitely is it all relative i saw i saw adam weathers post it we're still kind of number four ish in the overall rankings which is fine we don't have to be the biggest um and i kind of like that so yeah well i mean yeah so it is relative but i would say that the amount of the amount of like inquiries and newcomers is rapidly increasing. I'm seeing a lot more questions, a lot more people, a lot more chat. So yes, it's definitely blowing up, as you say, that we go through these kind of spikes now and then, and this sort of 2021 appears to be another one of those. Yeah, it's fun. I mean, it's definitely due to the contributions of everyone in the community and maintainers and I think Rich himself deciding to kick it up a notch with SvelteKit. it just does show just some some life yeah i've seen other projects that just kind of go stale because their maintainers don't really think about momentum and uh it doesn't matter because people want to see a heartbeat yeah yeah i think this this newsletter is actually a very good thing yeah yes and this podcast yep true well and also the upcoming uh the upcoming uh conference right yeah do we have a date not not yet no do we have a month i'm thinking april sometime okay i think that that's how much time we're going to need but yeah i mean yeah we could we could start kicking off like the talk proposals and stuff like that and i think i think we have a bunch of ideas of how to make things better for for organizers and for speakers and for audience members part of that is like the activity like the i've been i've been actually thinking about this like it would be a nice it's a nice tradition to have to have like a svelte coding activity during the conference yes that's hopefully not too distracting and not too hard but but also fun and i realized that clicker games are very in vogue like i fire up my apple app store and i see a bunch of clicker games and then yeah like i think they're pretty easy to code and people can get really creative with them so we might we might want to do a quicker game yeah yeah we could could provide like a like a starter one yeah and then you can improve on that like add transitions exactly you take it the way that you want like you can make the state management very complex or you can do animations or whatever yeah i was thinking about having like quiz between talks where you have like people can join and they can guess on answers yeah i like that something like that or i i think it was jake and serma who did a uh like they did charades at some google thing really yeah yeah like a month ago it was just like a short one that could also be fun so you can invite like community members to to join in yeah a lot of cool ideas it's it's going to be way better than than the second one even even though that one was nice yeah yeah yeah yeah and also well the other thing that i think we all agree on is that it should be shorter so it's not such a drag people feel so tired at the end of the day all right uh but yeah i mean so the reason i brought that up was because i see a bunch of games here as well like there's a there's a multiplayer tetris game in the community showcase there's a math based challenge game it actually reminds me of that the other game that's rich harris really liked which that like tixie do you guys know about that no where what's that it's like you have to you're restricted to to these four four variables t i x y like time index and then x and y position oh yes and then and you have to code within 280 characters and produce something interesting and it's like it's like a really interesting like code golfing challenge and that's it that's a fun game too yeah that could be something to do that makes sense with the old little matrix thing you posted uh a while ago tixieland yeah right yeah exactly yeah yeah that's cool yeah fun games yeah there's a bunch of octave compass i don't know yeah a lot of fun stuff and some some new libraries and components as well like the uh someone did like their React query, but for Svelte. Svelte query. I did see that. Yeah. I think it's like a, I'm not entirely sure if it's the same thing, but looks cool. There's also Adam Racks' Svelte, is it Svelte? No, what's it called? It's basically a Svelte version of his React GraphQL module. MicrographQL? His React one is called MicrographQL. I don't know. I didn't see the Svelte one. I think he rewrote it in Svelte. Right, right, right. I mean, so, okay, I guess I might as well mention, so Matthias Stahl, his Twitter handle is like H-I-G-S-C-H with underscores between them. Higgs. Yeah, he also tweeted about a 20 line of code internationalization.

 library in Svelte. And then he also made a talk about it. And because I'm trying, I'm in this mode of like requesting for talks to like keep the YouTube active and, you know, just like just continue sharing content from people like outside of a conference setting. Right. Yeah. And yeah, I mean, he's just very passionate about it. And it made this talk on Svelte internationalization. That's effectively a library. Exactly. That's so much easier to pronounce. It's just like, If you don't know what it is, then it's a bit hard to find. But anyway. Sure. Yeah. So he's the guy that did the defending democracy with Svelte thing, right? Well, that wasn't the title, but that's what the tagline ended up being. I just like, yeah, the data viz people have really embraced Svelte in a big way. Yeah. Moritz, I think on the Data Stories podcast, also interviewed Amelia Wattenberger. and yeah i almost think that there should be like a single a day of the svelte society conference dedicated to data viz because there's just such a big community there yeah i was i was a bit skeptical to that at first but i think why position well because i i didn't realize how popular svelte is in the day of his like community yeah yeah i understood which uses it yeah i i know So I know, but then I kind of, I was thinking maybe you could position Svelte as the data viz framework in a way, as a marketing thing. I mean, I'm just talking. Yeah, well, there's D3, so I don't know. I know, but you could do better. Or could you? I don't know. I mean, D3 is very specialized, right? It's very specialized. it's felt it's more of a general purpose but I guess it kind of almost automatically positions itself for data viz because of the way that Rich has built it and the way he's using it I think reactivity is also very good for that sort of stuff yes, alright let's see here, there are a bunch of other new components that you can take a look at, like a tiny virtual lists or some routers oh, we've been missing routers yeah, more routers every month in the order. I mean, that's it. It's worth actually checking these out because people are trying to solve real problems. We're jokingly saying it like that, but it nice to see more writers I think that having Scott Talinsky on was great because he tin row and i kind of looked at that and never looked away now i so focused on tin row it just really great he got yeah he very opinionated about about routing which is which is pretty cool i'm not it's like as long as i got a link a way to link things and you know although i wish that i guess query params were a formal part of the state that you get from routes because i end up having to build that so much um really yeah yeah that's how that's how you like get like copy and paste the copy pasteable apps which with like the state just embedded in the url right yeah you have to put it all in the query params okay uh one more one more uh library and then and i think we're done is uh svelte zoomable i think it's coming from daniel infeld he's just like very active i don't know who this guy is to be honest but uh he's just very active online wow he's based in hawaii but yeah it's just like a transition or animation sort of library type of thing and uh yeah it's it's uh it's published and it's in a repo and uh i mean the demo looks pretty good so yeah it's just another way to zoom back and forth between content i guess yeah i did i did see like the channel actually a good one yeah and there's a bunch of new learning resources as well i haven't been able to check these out there's someone made a awesome Svelte list. That's nice. But we also have the Svelte Society one. I think there must be a couple of those already, right? So there's now probably three or four. Yeah, probably. It would be nice to have a single, mind you, I mean... Yeah, I think the problem here is keeping them up to date. Yeah. Because people lose interest and they don't have time, all sorts of reasons, right? Yeah, I guess that's the advantage to having one as part of a website rather than than a github repo because people can actually like vote the feedback on ones that maybe don't work anymore or or libraries that become abandoned or whatever they can rate review them that sort of stuff that's my issue with awesomeness in general no one ever files the pr to note that something is no longer awesome yeah well someone someone did do that on the components inside svelte actually inside the because we've got this svelte integrations repository which is kind of i'm maintaining myself right now and it's it's an unknown who knows what will happen to it or where it's where it's destined for but uh but someone did do a pr i think to remove a load of stuff i was like that pretty nice yeah nice cool so i think there one pretty interesting like talk or learning thing here it like reactive web apps with Crystal and Svelte Crystal is a really cool language I suppose for backend development I've been interested in taking a look at it, but haven't been able to yet. What's it based on? So it's inspired by Ruby. Right, okay. I mean, it sort of makes sense, I suppose. Yeah. Yeah. What else is there? I can give a couple of these from the Twitter side of things. So there's new community organizers popping up all the time. I think there is like, I'm tracking something like 15 Svelte Societies worldwide. Wow. Which is, it is what it is because like, there's no, there's no meetings going on. So everyone's online. Most for the most part, but I do, I do hope to start Svelte Society Singapore soon. Yeah. So Svelte Canada is looking for, for help with like the logo and everything. I think Mike Nichols, who has published some, some good stuff in the past. he's looking for help. So anyone in Canada wants to get in touch, either get in touch with me or Mike Nichols and get that going. Svelte Dublin is basically up for adoption. The guy who was running it was like, I'm not doing a good job maintaining this, but I have a sweet URL, which is Svelte Dublin. So that's a very nice Dublin. I imagine all the Dublin stuff is just always on squatting on Indian domain names randomly. But yeah, stuff is going on. I think spelt india is kind of chugging along as well they're they're organizing a meetup and i'm helping them put stuff up on on the youtube as well yeah and so i think my message is i guess look first fall in your area there's particularly in different languages i think spelt brazil is is quite active i have no idea about spelt russia but yeah that's yeah we don't we don't know about much from from from those guys spelt russia should be actually huge didn't it we should have someone on it's probably still huge we just don't know the people involved probably yeah there's also uh so there's a new there's there was a guy who contacted me about starting like a svelte society italy as well oh okay that's interesting i haven't gotten back to him yet which i just realized that yeah yeah i think i think that's it for new stuff i think there's one more thing actually there's uh humble bundles books right um there's a new humble bundle out and one of the books in there is svelte 3 book oh um i feel like it the book written by italy pale ale who i believe works at microsoft i think Yep Yeah he did the router right Svelte SPA router Yeah the Svelte SPA router Yeah, correct. Yeah. Sean's laughing. I don't know why. I just like how we... Yeah, we don't know their real names. We just know their handles on Discord. I mean, this is the internet, right? This is... Swix is laughing at me now. Yeah, exactly. But, you know, yours is just Anthony wherever you go. yeah it's pretty consistent well where i can get it where i can get um yeah no cool but i think a lot's going on and hopefully as the year continues we'll we'll uh we'll liven up even more yeah yeah absolutely right so picks i do have another pick yeah so i mean i'm happy to go first if yeah so my pick is now this is one of those things like i say that i haven't purchased it but i i have purchased it in a way so we went we went shopping and we were looking at these these bone conducting headphones because my friend has them for cycling um i've got the box here but that's not really useful because no one can really see it but effectively a bone conducting headphones or bone conduction headphones what they essentially do is they sit just to the front of your ear just not in in in the ear and they vibrate the bones in your ear rather than using sound waves to do that they they vibrate them directly so it means that you could actually have music on in reasonably good quality i mean it's pretty high quality from what i've listened to it's a reasonable volume you know quite high volume even and yet you can still hear and interact in conversations around you and you're not shouting because you're wearing headphones and you're not missing things because you're wearing headphones you can just almost communicate normally with music playing as well it's almost like having speakers in the room it's it's quite amazing and they're perfect for things like swimming because there's no sort of there's no actual outputs you know speaker output things they're totally waterproof um they're bluetooth capable so you can you can have a bluetooth to your phone while you're swimming or they can be uh they can have music on them uh these particular ones called aftershocks so we've been trying out these aftershocks ones and they're really good in terms of all those those features uh it's it's just something that's never really occurred to me but i i don't wear headphones often when i'm out in the street because i like to be aware of my surroundings and this does solve that which is quite amazing for me so yeah my pick i guess is bone conducting headphones as a rule but if you're gonna have a look at these have a look at the aftershocks because they're a pretty good example of them. So my dad uses these and I always wonder, like, have we conclusively studied all the health impacts of vibrating your head bones at this high

 frequency all the time someone else mentioned this as well and i think that my response would be this would still be the same is is that when you listen to music at whatever volume music works by vibrating the three bones in your ear right the hammer and everything else so vibrating them via sound waves or directly surely is is not as much of a muchness right if the music's the same volume well it's vibrating your temple depending on where you wear it uh well yeah i think you wear them just in front of your yeah what's what's the bone there i don't know it just transmits through the bones doesn't that space i don't know to be honest but i would feel as a sort of layman's guess that it's not any worse or better than listening to music via sound waves operating those same bones all right fair enough but again i don't i don't know i'm not i'm not medical uh i'm not medically trained or anything like that yeah anyway it's probably just an irrational fear should you go first or should i yeah i can i can go so uh this this christmas i uh i made uh homemade swedish meatballs which are amazing what do you don't come from ikea i actually made them from scratch using a recipe no but but if you haven't tried like homemade proper swedish meatballs you really should it's really good okay yeah so That's my pick. Yes. I'll share it in the notes. Nice. Sweet. Well, that's a good pick. Solid pick. Yeah. Well, I was going to, I'm going to pick a friend because he helped me out recently. So this is Andrew Welch. He's Gaijiniti on Twitter. Gaijin, like the Japanese name for foreigner, I assume. His blog is at nystudio107 and his podcast is at devmode I just generally find him to be a pretty nice knowledgeable guy Not pretty like very nice He's funny. Just listen to any beginning introduction of devmode.fm. He asks you like an oddball question that just throws you off your balance. The one time I was on, I was really taken off guard and I totally lost my train of thought. He likes to do that. Who was the question? She was like, if you're like camping in the Himalayas with like llamas and you're on your like last tin can of food, which JavaScript framework would you use? It's just like a completely unrelated setting. You're just still thinking about that situation because he's like very descriptive and very like he just seems to come up with it on the spot. If you're like jumping out of an airplane with no parachute, which what kind of CSS style do you like? It's pretty funny. But the reason I'm picking him is because he's very knowledgeable. Like his blog has articles on Tailwind, Webpack, AWS, Docker, and it's very, very annotated. Like if you ever wanted to understand what a Webpack config looks like, he's actually gone through and annotated all of it and explained it really well. And it's very nicely laid out. And yeah, I mean, this guy's been in the industry for decades and he's still doing this for fun, for, yeah. And it's just like, he's the kind of developer I kind of want to be. He's not building houses then. No, he's not building houses. No, he's just, he's just living his life. and he's got a podcast, got a bunch of friends talking about tech and making clients happy. I think it's like a platonic idea of like what a developer life could be like. And then, and so like his blog was really helpful. But then also I had this problem recently because I got a vertical monitor and it wasn't filling, my screen wasn't filling up the monitor width and I tweeted it out. Within five minutes, he actually gave me the exact right answer that I needed. So I was like, damn it, you even know like hardware stuff. So so pretty helpful guy I recommend Miley Sounds good sounds good question actually has anyone made and i gonna say this because i don i don necessarily believe in these new year's resolutions i don't i don't think if you've got something to fix in your life you should wait a year for some arbitrary date to do it but no probably it's one of those things that people do right so so has anyone got any i was thinking about like maybe doing one but not like a proper one it's just like one of those you do every year like i'm gonna exercise more this year or right something like that that seems like a reasonable one to have yeah i think um sean yeah for me so i also struggle with that idea of like i think setting one year goals is an arbitrary length of time and most of us the way i put it is most of us haven't earned the right to set one year goals if we can't even set like a one month goal or and then and then like just like keep cutting it down so for me i actually blogged about this at the start of the year and i called it like a fibonacci goal system where you sort of follow the fibonacci sequence like you set a one day goal make sure you reach that then set a two-day goal three-day goal five day what's that's next eight yeah yeah the next fibonacci one yeah apparently if you go up if you go to 80 yeah if you go up to 89 so from one all the way to 89 actually takes 232 days total uh which is august 20th and with So anytime you miss a goal, because you're going to miss them. And the problem with like an annual goal is like, basically you just kind of give up right there. But for my system, I think you kind of just step back one level. So if you miss like the five day goal, then you go back to the three day goal, get a win. And once you have that win, you try the five day goal again. And just to basically build goal reaching as a muscle. And it kind of makes the case that most people don have the ability to make one year goals because they don know how to estimate goals and you don have the discipline to stick to it so you kind of have to just build it up from scratch so yeah i mean that it for me the problem is like what should you set the goal on that an open question and i don't really have one so writing is a base baseline thing for me so my my january first one day goal was writing january 3rd i did practicing guitar for two days and uh and then i took and i took a break because i fell sick today i have to decide my three-day goal uh and uh yeah just keeps going i think i'm going to try this yeah i was really ready to dismiss the first like you have to earn the right to make a year goal kind of thing because i thought well i'll do what i like but actually now you've put it in that perspective that you work your way through the fibonacci sequence that's really interesting i really i really really like that actually i might try and apply that that yeah obviously it's a figurative figurative right it's you know it's just yeah sure sure but it's one of those things it's like it's like it's it seems like i don't know it's it's it's interesting that it immediately sounds like a negative but actually if you think about the reasons behind it it's really positive actually i really like that interesting we've got to build our way up the reason the reason i started thinking about this because i've been very steeped in this idea that systems are better than goals which is this idea that just setting goals by themselves also don't tell you how to accomplish them sure and also once you reach them you kind of lost whereas systems are kind of just ever running ever going and they kind of just tell you what to do every day and and so a lot of systems over goals people are just like let's just screw goals like no no goals and i don't think that's right either so i wanted a balance of goals and systems so essentially the the conclusion was a system of goals and this is what i came up with well uh this was was this a blog post you wrote yeah yeah it's a six.io slash fibonacci goals yep we'll link it in the the show notes all right cool so that's uh that's us for this time. Yeah. It's always fun catching up and yeah, Happy New Year. Yeah. Happy New Year, everyone. Bye. Bye. Bye.