 This week's episode is sponsored by Extrastatic. Extrastatic is a hosting service for Sveckel blogs. Sveckel blogs combine the simple conventions of Jekyll with the incredible power of Svelte. Check it out at Extrastatic.com. Welcome to Svelte Radio. Hey, it's another Svelte Radio episode. Today we have all of the hosts are back. Yay. Hello, everyone. Hello. Hello, hello. Oh, there he is. Sean's back. So, what have you guys been up to? Been very busy. Work stuff. Yeah, yeah. Cool. I am finally in New York, which is a bit of a homecoming for me. The last time I was here was when COVID happened and everything shut down. And yeah, it's nice to be back. Yeah. Nice. Nice. Nice. That apartment you're in looks very spacious. It's a hostel. Ah. It's like a co-working area. I basically, like, I don't have to save the money, but if I don't need to spend extra money to stay in a hotel, I'm going to stay in a hostel. So in the U.S., I think I recommend this network of hostels called Hostelling International. I guess that's my pick already because they have a hostel in every major city and it's probably the cheapest accommodation you can get. So here I'm staying in New York City. I can get anywhere in town for in 30 minutes and it's 60 something dollars a night. Oh, that's cheap. Yeah, it's pretty cheap. So it's a good place. I mean, obviously it's a shared bunk bed type situation, but whatever. That can be fun as well, depending on what kind of trip you want to do. If you have buddies as well, yeah, but I'm usually traveling by myself. I met some lifelong friends in a hostel in New York, oddly enough. Oh, we don't talk at all. Everyone just does their own thing. No, we talked, we drank mate, we had loads of great fun. It was really like a life experience. and also the life experience was that the hostel was in harlem and it had like rats running around the floor and it had like cold showers so yeah there a lot to talk about yeah yeah yeah it was fun it was definitely fun yeah that sounds a bit scary all right so so you you traveling around sean what what about you anthony what are you what are you doing uh well not traveling the opposite basically staying at home working i think it's basically how it works out yeah just hired another person well we hired a while ago but he's now joined so that's fun trying to actually manage the team which is again like i said i think last week it's it's a new challenge for me really but um but it seems to be going pretty well um yeah stuff's getting delivered it's high quality i'm pretty happy with it so yeah it's a scaling i guess that's that's what we do can't just run this one small instance of of your application anymore you have to well yeah microservices and i mean yeah we get into we get into software scaling. That's a whole new ball game. We're still figuring out our sort of QA strategy for that, but all good fun and games. Yeah. Cool, cool. And summer's here in England. Sorry. Yeah. No, spring is here in Stockholm. Well, it's technically spring, but it's so hot today and we've got the windows open and everything. So it's kind of like a mini summer. That sounds nice. Yeah, so what have I been up to? I've been working on the Svelte Summit site and the upcoming fall event as well. So I guess I can give a short update. So we've released two of the 12 sessions that we're going to have at the spring event. So we have Svelte, a shortcut to accessibility by Josephine Schaefer. Sorry, Josephine. I tried. And we also have Svelte Native in production, which is pretty excited about that one. I don't think we've ever had a Svelte Native talk by Kyohei Hamaguchi. I think he did a talk last time as well. So those are interesting. And we also have a number of other talks coming up as well. And we're bringing back the meatball sessions in case you like those from two summits ago. So yeah, we're going to release more of the talks during this week and next week and the week after, I think. So there's that. Yeah, that's pretty much the spring event. And then there also the fall event which most people probably haven heard about But there an in Svelte Summit coming up in fall So that September 8 and 9 So it two days of a lot of Svelte talks, and I've got some exciting speakers that will be sharing their knowledge. Rich has confirmed that he's coming, so that's nice. Penguin is also coming, Pete Allen, if you, I'm sure most of you have heard about him. And I'm also talking to a lot of other speakers that I'm going to announce as we get closer. You can buy tickets already. The super early bird ones are almost running out. I think there are like three left. So if you want to grab one of those, that's a good idea to do now. But yeah, we have a venue. It's like a newly built place. I might have talked about this last time, but I might as well talk about it again. You built a venue just for Svelte Summit. I mean, that's dedication. Yeah, built using Svelte, of course. Oh, and Svelte as well. Wow. Yeah, yeah. I just did a custom renderer for bricks instead of HTML elements. It's like screen printing. Svelte really native. It's called Svelte really native. Svelte physically. Yeah. All right. I guess that's a status update of what we've all been up to. Let's get into the fun parts of the podcast. There's a new feature. You know how Svelte colon component is a thing where you can pass in components? You can now do it, but with elements. It's called Svelte colon elements, which is pretty nice. It's exactly what you'd expect, right? You can pass in a tag name and it'll render the corresponding HTML tag name. So, yeah. It's not particularly... Sorry? I was going to say, it saves you from... If you previously, for example, we have a field component that can do password fields, text fields. It could use your text area as well, but it can do... If you click the eye icon, it will change it to a password field. So right now you've got loads of if statements to get that working. It works, but it's pretty ugly. So what this does is it allows you to replace that with a single tag Yeah I think the main use case for this is people that work with CMSs right Where you get a JSON tree of some content, maybe, and you want to just render the correct HTML. So you kind of had to do this weird 50 if statement thing where you had all of the elements, which wasn't fun. Yeah, I don't even know. I don't know if it's just CMSs, actually. I think that it's useful for any kind of admin application, really. Yeah, definitely. Because if you define a CRUD model and you don't want to build the same old form for each of your CRUD models, you can use this instead and render it dynamically, which is something that I've been sort of wanting to do for years. And we kind of do do it in some respects, but it's pretty ugly at the moment. Yeah. So I think this, let's see if we can find the PR. This PR has been open for a pretty long time, right? It's, I think. Two years? Yeah, it's a long, long time. Six, eight, nine, eight. Actually, the PR has been open since November last year. So not that long. but the issue was open since October 2020. Yeah, that makes sense. That makes sense. Yeah, I remember we've probably talked about this a couple of times on the podcast about how it'd be nice to have this. So my question is, why do we need a separate API for Svelte component and Svelte element? Yeah, that's a good question. I guess since it's an element and not a component, but then you could probably rename it to I don't know, svelte colon dynamic or something and then it just does both I felt like I needed the answer to this because it was brought up when someone suggested I'm sure it was discussed but I don't know what it is and I can't remember now but yeah, there was definitely a reason why you can't maybe it's something along the lines of breaking changes or something no it's not bad it's something more fundamental there's some very basic heuristics same like reacts if it's uppercase it's it's a component if it's lowercase it's an element that's it yep could do that

 I guess that would make it easier for React people coming over. Yeah. Well, I mean, I think Svelte uses the exact same heuristics. It does, yeah. Yeah. So there's no difference at all. It's not hard and fast. You just get warned about it. Yeah. So I think it's more to study this with use cases. So I put a couple in the show notes, and hopefully that will help people use this. And we should probably give a shout out to the guy that made the PR, Uechiro Yamashita. My Japanese is rusty, sorry. It's not bad. Yeah, the pronunciation. I mean, I did study Japanese for a couple of years, so kind of cheating, but that was a long time ago. but yeah so is he doing any other kind of cool stuff look at his github oh my god it's so green okay so he's a frequent contributor to SvelteKit and he has a side project called Kvelt Kvelt is Svelte and Kotlin wow there's someone in the discord that always harps on about Kotlin. I don't remember who it is. Oh, no, it's the Tails person. Okay, okay, okay. I'm just kind of browsing through his GitHub. So he's doing a lot of stuff, just random poking around, but it looks like he's interested in WebAssembly, Kotlin, Svelte, good stuff. Let's put his GitHub in the links here in the notes. Cool. Anything else? What's the implication? What's next? Are there any more fancy svelte colon elements that might be introduced? I mean, there will be, obviously, in the future. There isn't any immediate plans, I don't think. There will be what in the future? There might be more svelte colon tags in the future, but there aren't any immediate plans for any. That's what I know of, anyway. So, I have a question about this. svelte colon element thing can you put a svelte colon body tag inside of a svelte colon element as the tag Don't think so. Yeah, I don't know. You would need some kind of recursion. Yeah. Why do you want that? No, I was just thinking about it. Okay. Just if it's possible. No real reason. Come up with the use case and propose it. Let's see. Yeah, yeah, yeah. All right. Should we talk a bit about this other PR that's been... Oh, yeah, super neat. Yeah. Okay, I mean, I can... Anthony spotted it, so I guess you're the best person to talk about it and then I can give some background on Turbo Repo, I guess. Yeah, I mean, I just spotted it being talked about and rich open to PR to convert one of our jobs. So one of the problems we have with GitHub Actions is it can be quite lengthy when it runs tasks, especially if you're just fixing a typo and a change set. It's rerunning all the actions and kicking things off. And the build time for changing a typo and a change set or changing a bit of documentation is about nine and a half minutes. Well, it's actually nearly 10 minutes, which is quite a lot of time considering. And it's also bad for the environment, power-wise, et cetera, et cetera, things like that. and so obviously always looking for ways to reduce that and Turbo Repo of course has recently been acquired by Vercel and I honestly I looked at it I thought it was kind of an equivalent to PMPM I really like PMPM so I was like nice and then kind of moved on and didn't look into it too deeply it turns out it can be used alongside PMPM and so Rich applied it to this this PR and it reduced that build time from 10 minutes to 1 minute 16 seconds, which I still haven't quite figured out how it's done that. There's some kind of absolute magic going on. It has some other features such as like signing the third-party repository and things like that for integrity and security. But yeah, that build time reduction, because it's using PMPM still anyway, I mean, maybe Sean could shed some light on how that works. Well, I mean, this is one of the very, I guess, basic propositions of why Turbo Repo was acquired by Vercel. There's some synergy here. So if you look at the PR, this is PR 4611 in SvelteKit Line 11 and 12 the additions are the Turbo token and Turbo team and then there also a Turbo cache key And that gives you a hint that I think they are using the remote caching feature that Vercel has enabled. So what that means is everything, every build and every step of the build is uniquely hashed and uploaded to Vercel. And that means that any user, so that increases the build speeds for CI for the SvelteKit project but also it means that if you use Turbo Repo on your local machine you get to download the same build that was built in CI because it's a unique hash so that is the huge speed and the huge synergy that Vercel offers because it already has a CDN that just sends you assets anyway so yeah, I got very bullish about Turbo Repo end of last year. And I wrote a little blog post about why Turbo Repo. So you can go a little bit more into that. But I think just generally, you can see that our tooling is shifting towards supporting Mono Repos. It's just a best practice in a lot of cases. Obviously, for a project like Svelte and SvelteKit, you want to have that. But I think increasingly, you're going to see, even for very basic apps, you're going to want a Mono Repo just for like, here's our component library. Here is our testing. here is our app. And having the monorepo setup from the start makes it a lot easier for you to do a lot of the standard development tooling that you've come to be very used to. Yeah, it sounds very nice. Especially the end result here of bringing it from 10 minutes to one minute. You take this and run it forward. The stack that we used in 2020, maybe 2019, 2020, might be completely replaced by 2030, right? So from Node to Dino, from NPM to PMPM, from, I don't know, we did not have anything for Turbo Repo, and then we had Turbo Repo, and then from Webpack to Vite, just like the whole generational shift is happening, and that's kind of the third age of JavaScript pieces. Yeah. Wild. Definitely. All right. any any other topics or do you guys feel like we're we should uh move on to unpopular opinions oh god i need to come up with some unpopular opinions yeah me too actually i don have any i i i have one i have one oh yeah okay let talk about it yeah So mine is and I don know if it an unpopular opinion I feel like it is because most people like use All right. I'm just going to start with what it is. All right. So SaaS products are expensive and overrated, and you should look at self-hosting more stuff. That's it. Yeah. Anthony had that like a year ago. I remember you. Anthony ranted about it. Yeah. You're not ready about SaaS pricing, but same thing. Yeah, well, more the void between the low and the high, I guess, the jump. But yeah, I agree. Ah, right. I mean, self-hosting has got its own caveats as well, though, right? Absolutely. But it depends on what you need from your SaaS products as well, I guess. And you can always use SaaS products that are open source, so you can self-host them, I guess. That makes sense. That gives you also a way of probably migrating easily to a hosted one in case you need it. So we recently at Svelte Society stopped using a lot of paid products. So we stopped using Dropbox. And there are a couple of others that I can't remember off the top of my head. Oh, right. Yeah. So the marketing solution. So we're doing self-hosted marketing. And we just rented a server, like a dedicated server, and it costs like 34 euros a month or something. It's nothing. And you get a proper server with like 20 terabytes of traffic. It's never going to run out of resources for what we're doing. And it's still cheaper than piling on all of these services like Dropbox. And I think we used Email Octopus, it was called. So now we're just using something called ListBunk and AWS for sending the emails. And we went from, I think, $30 a month to, I don't know, like 50 cents or $1 for the email alone. So, yeah, it's a pretty neat way of saving money. And, yeah, definitely something to look at. Yeah, if you're recouping the costs like that, you're probably covering the overheads of maintaining your own server. A lot of my aversion to self-hosting is just the maintenance, security, things like that. And I think that if the saving is significant enough, then it's definitely...

 definitely worth doing but i think a lot of stuff that even we do you know as a company that's got a lot of traffic and stuff we can do using just free sas tiers um and then you know occasionally we'll we'll bust a limit there and we'll go well it's now worth us paying a little bit more money to upgrade um so yeah i mean it's it's kind of depends on what you're doing and how you're doing i suppose but sounds like yeah decent saving on email alone yeah so so i guess the like the the counter-argument here is that like if if you're blasting through limits that's probably a good problem yeah you're probably getting sales and a lot of users and stuff so pays for itself but yeah like for an org like svelte society that doesn't like sell a product it's i think it kind of makes sense we should sell products we should sell swag yeah yeah so it it is planned so i think there will be swag at the Svelte Summit event later this year yeah I'm gonna try getting some t-shirts and hoodies at least but like stickers for sure definitely stickers yeah but yeah we'll see all right yeah that's my that's my unpopular opinion uh I have a last last minute one I don't know how how interested you guys are to talk about it because this is not technically Svelte but this section is not so specific anyway. So Redwood is viable now. So Redwood.js is the Rails for JavaScript attempt from Tom Pistone Warner, who was the founder of GitHub. And Jekyll and YAML and a bunch of very influential... Did you know he also came up... He also wrote the Semver spec. Wow. No. What? Yeah. I had no idea. I think it just comes out of being super early in in open source and just being involved in all the things that you need for open source and turns out some of them are pretty important anyway so redwood basically is a selection of react ecosystem libraries and tooling including prisma and react hook form and there's a bunch of other other stuff except for styling anyway i i had a debate with him for for the styling piece and they were announced maybe three years ago and then they had some noise about in 2020 and then complete silence for the last two years. So I thought they were dead. And recently they had, well, this last week, they had a 1.0 release where they showed off a bunch of like they showed a demo they showed a bunch of startups they building on it and i think it just a really nice idea really nice demonstration of like yeah you can build quietly and then when you're ready to launch uh try to do as special especially launch as possible and this is how to do it and it's very difficult to do something like this because people want you don't want you to succeed or people are cynical of your success right like who needs another React-based framework. So what they did was they picked a focus and their focus was if you're building a full stack startup and you want to be productive out of the box with React, here's a curated, cohesive toolkit that is built for you and has been built over the past three years by a very capable team. And they follow that up with like 10, 12 different startups that are building on it. Some of them small, some of them are more like side projects but some of them are actually substantial and i don't know i just thought it was a very good example of how to launch things uh even if you don't like the the tech itself you can study it just for like all right if you ever want to work on something like this in the future uh this is the playbook and i thought it went really well and it also shows like this is the kind of this is the way that like people like tom press and warner ship stuff like if you're shipping something like Jekyll or GitHub or anything like that, you have to grind for a few years. Yep. So wait, so you invented YAML. Sorry, Toml. Oh, Toml. Okay, not YAML. Toml stands for Tom's markup language, which is his name. Yeah, I thought it was YAML. I'm sorry, I misspoke. That's funny. I was going to say, because it's YAML, then that's controversial. Yeah. So, I mean, it does seem like there are a couple of organizations, like Remix is up and running, Redwood is up and running, and then Blitz.js has now pivoted as well. But, you know, I think the React ecosystem is still building out. And hopefully, you know, from Svelte, like, we don't have the numbers to support that, but hopefully SvelteKit itself can keep a watch on what those ecosystems are learning and maybe borrow some lessons. Yeah, I'm starting to more and more feel like it'd be nice to have certain stuff built in. Like have everything for auth just ready to roll pretty much because you always need that And there are other things that you need as well like i guess we have we have testing right um with playwright auth is very opinionated right authors auth can be done a million different ways and i think so you either put something in it becomes a plugins architecture which is really difficult and messy or you put in something that allows one way of authenticating and then you know ignores everything else. So it's a difficult one to sell, really, I think. Yeah, you might be right. I think it's a store. I think, yeah. I have a project called the Everything Store, where we just put all these things in. Hopefully, they're out of the box. Next.js has Next.off, which hopefully does the same thing. But I don't know how much you can make it generic. Yeah. Well, just like OAuth, right? That'd be one way of doing it. it. Yeah, I'm also very interested in seamless translation of local state to persisted state. So can we have the same API for component state going up to application state, going up to maybe URL state, going up to user state that's persisted in the backend, going up to team state and organization state, something like that. So that's, I don't know if this is exactly what you're looking for, but I got demoed a product, I think, the day before yesterday. Might have been yesterday. Well, anyway, like a persistent, like from client to server kind of store thing for Svelte and other JavaScript frameworks. It was pretty cool. It's not released yet, so I can't really say anything about it. Okay. There are a few of these. Convex is the one that I've been talking to. Convex.dev. And then I think, yeah, there's a bunch of these. AWS Amplify also has that. It's just a bit more heavyweight. And then you could also look at maybe MongoDB Realm. There's all these sort of local database in your app thing. Yeah. So this was pretty cool. I thought the idea was pretty cool, and I think it might be really nice to work with, especially with SvelteKit. So I pretty excited to see him release that probably in the next couple of weeks as some kind of beta or something We see I have a controversial opinion. Wait, wait, before you start. So, Sean, your unpopular opinion is that you shouldn't necessarily release stuff. No, the opinion is just like Redwood is viable now. All right. When most people were dismissing it, including myself oh i see i see gotcha gotcha all right anthony sorry yeah my my controversial opinion is that i should not be banned from twitter that's my controversial opinion but you're banned from twitter yeah so so this this person tweeted yesterday someone i don't know they tweeted how do i lose 20 pounds in a week and i thought you know whatever it's fun i'll respond cut your arm off and so i responded cut your arm off and then twitter immediately banned me saying that I'm promoting or encouraging suicidal self-harm, which I understand the concept, but maybe that algorithm needs a bit tweaking. And they said you can delete the tweet if you want. It's like an automated thing. Or you can submit an appeal. And because I want them to see their algorithm needs tweaking, I've submitted an appeal. They said it'll take 12 hours. I'm still banned. So I'm guessing I'm now on like 24 hours, 48 hours. I'm not sure how long ago I got banned. But it's very annoying. And I disagree with the ban. Well, maybe it changes when the new owner takes over, right? Did you guys see that? Elon Musk put in a bid for, I think, $43 billion for Twitter? Yeah, he's also trying to do a hostile takeover, right? He's already screwing the shelves over. I mean, the problem with that is Elon Musk hasn't got very good opinions. Well, he still has money and he can probably buy it. So I guess we'll see what happens. so I did not see that and I own Twitter shares oh no you've got a conflict of interest there Sean why? is it your ethics or is it your wallet that's going to win out what are you talking about I just got a lucky payday well that's what I mean that's the money but then Elon will own Twitter oh I don't care oh okay yeah I mean the stock price hasn't moved What is this? Really? Oh shit. That is weird. He put in a bid for $54.20.

 The stock is at 47, and it's like, that's nothing. Maybe there's some... Nobody believes him anymore. Yeah, exactly. Cry wolf too much. Yep. Maybe that's a good thing for him, though, in this case. So he tells people he's going to bid it. Maybe that's not legal, though. Like, if you bid 54, can you actually buy it for less if the market caps lower? When is Elon ever worried about legality? Yeah. He just manipulates whatever he needs to do and then just buys it. All right. Enough about Mr. Musk. Yeah. Stonks. Do you guys have any picks? I had one. Oh, Kevin here, Nextcloud. Yep. Okay. So I can go first. So that's basically continuing on on the unpopular opinion one. So Nextcloud is pretty much a, I guess you could call it a self-hosted Google Docs, Google Sheets thingamajig that also has support for file sharing and stuff. So it works very well as a replacement to Dropbox, at least what I'm using it for. Okay. So that's nextcloud.com. And it's the self-hosted productivity platform that keeps you in control. yep and it's presumably open source has been it even has a wikipedia page which is pretty interesting so it looks like it's been around for a while yeah it's it's very nice like definitely definitely something i recommend wow uh never i can believe i haven heard of this yeah you can you can host photos and all sorts of stuff Yeah okay So the feature set is modular so you can have a lot of plugins Yeah, there's a lot of good stuff there. Okay, all right. It does have email as well. That's handy because Google Workspace is starting to charge grandfathered-in customers like myself. It means that a lot of people are looking to move away. So it could be an interesting option. Yeah. Ooh, I got to put in another pick here. Yeah. If you guys are fine with that. You can have mine. All right. Sean, do you want to go first before I do my second one? Yeah, all right. So I recently switched email providers from this service called FastMail to something called PurelyMail. and Purely Mail is just one person running this company and it basically lets you pay a set fee for an unlimited amount of accounts and domains. And since I have a lot of domains and accounts and stuff, I think I pay like $1 a month for all of my emails and all of that. And that's compared to Fastmail, which was, I think, $60 or $70. So that's a big win. It's kind of brave to say that you're a one-person company, isn't it? Because it maybe impacts confidence in people that you'll be around in a year's time. Yeah. And I mean, especially if you're running an email hosting service, that needs to actually deliver email and stuff It like super key man syndrome key person syndrome isn it Yep Scary Okay. Shall I do my one? Mine's pretty quick. So this is a pic of my tweet that I made. And I only do it because it randomly became the most popular tweet I've ever done. And it's about Twitter as well. And basically, so what this is, is everyone wants an edit button for Twitter, but you cannot. But people, they've been resisting it for a very long time because of the problem of people editing what they say after you've endorsed it, which seems to be an intractable problem. But somehow they're trying to figure it out. And in the meantime, they have this sort of premium product called Twitter Blue, where they let you have a timeout. Kind of like Gmail lets you edit your, doesn't actually send your email when you tell it to send the email. It holds on to it in case you want to undo. And so they have a 20-second undo thing in Twitter Blue if you pay $3 a month for that feature set. It turns out that this Twitter undo feature is browser only. So if you close the window after sending, you lose the tweet that you just made. and so basically what Twitter did is implement set timeout and charge you $3 a month for it and I think that's pretty funny so basically we need to charge $3 we can charge $3 a month to create a browser extension that sits at the top of the tweet button and delays 20 seconds and then clicks it for you it's been like that ever since Twitter Blue has been around which is uh seven eight months and i just like you know if this doesn motivate you to ship your shitty site project then i don know yeah yeah so that was actually your most popular tweet ever ever yeah wow wow i bet you didn expect that of course not yeah i was just making a shit post but this is okay like you know there are a few ranking factors if you want to like get really meta like okay people like talking about twitter on twitter yes okay and then and then like is it funny yes and then uh is it sort of does there is an audience uh tweet fit yes because uh you know front end and uh criticism of a large publicly listed company and then there was a bit of motivation at the end which uh which I talked about uh side projects so I actually I mean you know retroactively I could break down like why I did well but also yeah I mean I don't really care right yeah all right I think that's uh that's all of us or well Anthony didn't have one right I didn't really have a pick maybe maybe I did have a pick maybe my pick my pick today is is a plyo push-up because i i um i saw on um on twitter there was a thread actually speaking of twitter and the thread was can any developer do 25 push-ups some kind of like engagement bait tweet like that you know saying that all developers are weak or whatever else like that and and a bunch of people uh including ken wheeler just replied to that he little video of him doing some push-ups and i was thinking actually push-ups are cool and everything but i really like plyo push-ups so if you don't know what one is it's where you do a push-up and at the top of the push-up you push your hands away from the floor so you're in the air and you clap and then you land on your hands again and you beat that and it's obviously just adds a bit more kind of like they say explosiveness to push-ups but it's interesting but yeah so i think my pick is just apply a push-up and everyone should do them because it's very healthy all right cool cool all right um thanks everyone for listening once again we'll be back next week with another episode. And yeah, until then, goodbye. Bye.