 Hey, it's another Svelte Radio episode. Yay. And today we have a great one. So, so many guests. We have the whole of Svelte Sirens on. So we're seven people here and it's going to be a blast. So say hello, everyone. Hey. Hello. Hi. Hello. Hola. Hola. Trying not to step over each other. Yeah. And of course, Sean and Anthony are here as well, as usual. But yeah, so we thought this could be a fun and interesting episode. And yeah, we're going to talk about Svelte Sirens, basically. So before we start, let's introduce ourselves. So I'm Kevin, as you all probably know. And then we have the other hosts, Anthony. Say hello. Hey, I'm Anthony. I'm always here. And Sean? Just never leaves. Hey, I'm sick. and then we have the sirens so let's let's start with willow hi uh i'm i'm a little great and then yeah who's next steph maybe or britney hey i'm steph welcome welcome britney hey i'm britney and then uh last but not least welcome welcome welcome everyone to this exciting episode this is a bit hard i have to admit like talking to to six people at the same time but we're going to get through it so before we get into the deep end here so what's svelte sirens yeah so the svelte sirens i always explain it as kind of a subset of svelte society for women and non-binary people and our allies so anyone can actually be a part of the Svelte Sirens, but we want to focus on those women and non-binary people. And currently right now we do monthly talks and live streams to show how to integrate different things with Svelte but we got a lot of fun things planned for the future So that kind of what it is and what we doing for the moment Cool Cool So how did you guys start this thing Yeah. So Sean actually was looking for people to help grow Svelte and had asked me early last year if I had any interest in helping start the Svelte Sirens. And I was like, ooh, that's a really cool name, but I was slammed and did not have extra time. My kids were like in school or not in school yet. We were in the summer and it was just a busy time. So I put it off and it was maybe September of last year when I messaged him again. And I was like, Hey, has anyone taken you up on this offer? Is there any interest in it? And he said he hadn't gotten anything. So I was like, okay, my kids are all in school now. I have some free time. Let me start this thing. So I reached out to a couple of people. And that was Willow and Steph and Jen. And we co-founded the Svelte Sirens. We announced it at Svelte Summit in the fall. And the three of us, Steph, me and Jen, got to meet in person at the Svelte Summit watch party in New York. But we had Willow phone in and did it with his own video. So that was fun. And that's kind of our intro story. But anyone else have anything to add? All right. So you guys have a website as well, which is a pretty fun website. There's a lot of, like, the bubbles on there are exciting. I remember you guys were working on this for like a couple of days. Maybe Willow can talk about the bubbles because she created the bubbles and then Brady actually added the sound for that. So that was super cool. Oh, right. Everyone loves the bubbles. I didn't know there's sound. There is. There is, yeah. I mean, I must say, Kevin, most of the work, you know, that's been done on the website really is, you know, attributable to Brittany, mostly, and Willow doing a lot of the work. Yeah, it's nice. So you can see, so you have on there, like, the streams that you've done. And it's a really great website. Stuff like that, right? Yep. There are previous streams that we have done, links off to those to YouTube, and then we have upcoming streams as well. And there's also a link to the Google Calendar, which has all of our events on it. That's awesome. That great All right So who are you all How did you find Svelte Why did you pick Svelte Answer all of the questions please Maybe I could start. So I'm Jen Ashley. I've been very involved in the community. And it's not just in one community. I tend to be involved in a lot of different things, especially here in London. and I run a lot of tech media groups and a lot of women in tech groups as well. And I actually found out about Svelte. I'm not sure if it's through Anthony. Honestly, I think he's also the one who invited me to the Discord group, if I remember correctly. But I know that Anthony and I were communicating on Twitter and that's probably how I got involved with Svelte. like i uh honestly can't remember now i think i think you're right yeah was it like that yeah well so you i think it actually happened with you and it happened with scott as well and i think it also happened maybe we've got like an exposure problem it happened with uh isn't it as well so basically people independently approached me on twitter saying is there a svelte society uh like is there a svelte meetup uh if not i want to start one i'm like oh just join us and it's happened like three times so maybe like we need more marketing behind behind the meetups right but they seem to be pretty popular though right yeah i think they are popular i think i think the ones who've done are growing and growing but uh it's weird that maybe like they're not on twitter somewhere i'm not sure yeah yeah maybe we can maybe we can push them out a bit more on on twitter i was actually thinking about that too because we were talking a little offline on discord about how no one has really joined the Svelte Sirens, like they're not a part of the Svelte Sirens community. And I kind of feel like Svelte Society is the same way, how it's like a community of people that talk and chat, but it's not like, doesn't seem like something you join and you're a part of. So maybe we do have like some room there to grow and like market this differently. Yeah. Yeah. And I think that's what I was referring to as, you know, in terms of like growing a community, because we need to kind of have or be at a stage where people are actually self-identifying as a member of a community. So I think there's a lot of work that we need to do there, definitely. Yeah It interesting like the problem of getting people to join I don even know what you call it like these tech communities in a way I think people often find that they feel that they already members even though they not like officially joined in some capacity if that makes sense We need an induction process. We need to... Is there hazing involved? Hazing? Yeah. Special ring, special handshake. I think we're going to scare people away. Yeah, I think this is the opposite of what we want. Yeah. But I think maybe we can think of ways for people to just kind of probably say, yes, I am part of this community. I don't know what we even call community members, Svelthers or something. Obviously for Svelte Sirens, Svelte Sirens. I don't know. In some groups sometimes with the badges or something. I'm just thinking out loud here, honestly. Facial tattoos. Definitely. Tattoos, yeah. We do have the badges on the Discord, but that's mostly just for organizers of Svelte Society. I think we could maybe, I don't know if we could do something about that on the Discord. I know that I'm planning on rebuilding the website, and that's going to entail all sorts of member functionality and stuff like that. So you could maybe do something with that. But yeah, maybe we could fold in, maybe not fold in Svelte Sirens, but maybe we could do some collaboration there, combine the member systems so we can, I don't know. I'm just thinking out loud. I'll mention something. So those of you who have met me in person, I actually wear a wristband. And it's a black and green wristband. And it's a wristband that I got from ViewConf. And I've been wearing it for three years now. And it's not like I obviously enjoy View. And I had a really good time there. But I like having some item that I can wear that's not obtrusive, that signals I'm part of a community. And so maybe you can work on something like that. I think there's someone who maybe worked on a keychain in the past. I don't know. But yeah.

 So I would wear a Svelte. That's actually my assignment, I think, to do the merchandising bit. Swag. I have started with some already. I need to just continue working on that site and get it out there. But yeah, I'll definitely try and get that done sooner. I think this is fine for somebody who has like a cult-like dedication to Svelte like me. but I think that Sean and Jen are involved in pretty much everything. And you're going to have like an entire arm full of like bands until your circulation gets cut off. So I'm not sure like why you volunteered for that, but sure. Let's make wristbands. Well, it could be anything. Of swag, yeah. Like stickers or something would be really cool. But I think we got way off track. So let's get back to how we got started. I think we were all excited by Swags. I love how it's free-flowing. I like it. I like it. Yeah. Yeah. But we need more introductions. Yeah. We haven't heard from everyone. Yeah. Steph, want to go? Yeah. I'll go ahead and hop in. I'm Steph Dietz. I work at Vercel on the DevRel team. And what were the three questions? The first one was, how did I find out about Svelte? I think I found out about Svelte two years ago. someone commented on one of my YouTube videos asking me to do a tutorial on it. And I had no clue what it was. So of course I like took to Google and Googled it and I thought it was really cool, but I had just started learning how to code. So I just like kind of made a mental note. I think I actually tweeted out, like I was adding it to my list of things to learn. And two years later, I finally started learning it. When I joined Vercel, they asked me what I wanted to create content on. And I thought it would be cool to give like my first impressions in a blog post of switching from view to Svelte and what the learning curve was like. And you guys know it's like once you start with Svelte, you don't want to stop. So next thing I knew, I was just like completely switching frameworks from view to Svelte and I have not looked back. That is a good review of Svelte. Yeah. And you even did a course recently, right? Or some kind of workshop thing? Yeah, I'm working on it right now. so I'm working on a complete Svelte and Svelte kit course. So from knowing nothing about Svelte to having all the knowledge you know to build out a full app And that going to be released pretty soon but not quite yet Cool Exciting Yeah It sponsored by Vercel Like, it's just very, still very new to me that Vercel has embraced Svelte so quickly, so fast. Yeah, yeah. It'll be sponsored by Vercel, hosted on Vercel. Yeah, I mean, everyone at Vercel loves SvelteKit, so it's super exciting. I'm glad that I get to work with it at Vercel. yeah do you do you get to interact anything with rich yeah yeah he anytime i have a question i can go to him and he's going to be reviewing my course before i actually post it which is awesome oh that's great yeah that's convenient actually that's cheating that's it's awesome it's got it's got the uh blessings yeah yeah cool and then uh willow i think you're you're next yeah um so i hi i'm willow uh i do freelance and open source i guess i got involved with svelte two years ago maybe something like that i found i i wanted to to escape jquery actually i mean i know people usually like i want to escape react or something but you know um wanted to escape jQuery and I was looking around and I saw a fire ship video on what's new in Svelte 3 and I was like this this looks great so um I started digging around and I found a project called Routify and I started trying to contribute to that and then I that's how I got involved with open source and then it just kind of snowballed from that. Yeah. Nice. Routify is, I love Routify. I've used it a lot. And Jake is great as well. Go listen to the Routify episode, right? Exactly. Yeah. Yeah. We'll listen to that one as well. I think that leaves me. I'm Brittany Posma. I'm a software engineer at Grainger, and I was actually originally hired to build our design system and component library in Svelte. And that was really fun, but we did switch to React in December, which I'm really sad about, but still working there and building the design system in React and Storybook now, which we'll get back to Storybook in our unpopular opinion section. So I learned about Svelte when I had taken this React course and I had built a site in Gatsby for my portfolio And I was listening to Syntax FM at the time and just kept hearing Scott gush about Svelte. And I'm like, I have to try this. Like if somebody loves it that much, I feel like I need to get in on that. And so as soon as I tried it, I switched everything that I had at the time. So my portfolio site, I had like a blog site. I had like a couple different things. They all went on to Sapper and I was just instantly in love. And I think it was just the developer experience was so much better than anything I'd had experience with. And it felt more like that vanilla HTML, CSS, and JavaScript that I had originally learned. And I didn't feel like the complexity got in my way to where I couldn't understand the special sugar syntax. I could just write some vanilla stuff and it made sense to me. And I really love it. Yep. That's pretty much how I got into Svelte as well. It seems to be like a recurring theme, like everyone just tries it and just like falls in love, kind of. Yeah, exactly. All right. So have you guys tried any other frameworks? How do you like compare? Well, I guess since you're here, you probably like Svelte, hopefully, compared to the other frameworks. yeah i mean i i've messed around with a few frameworks and actually when i first started at versell i was hired to create view content because i was a view developer and i still love view and i use it um for some projects but i mean it's like once you test out svelte like it's the only framework you really want to use so i'm so excited for the svelte community to keep growing and for it to become more mainstream. It's really nice. I hope you guys will make it to Svelte Summit this fall so we can all meet up. That would be fun. Yes, we do have to all go and meet up there. That would be really great. Do we have a date? Yes, September 8th and 9th. Okay. I need to start planning for that. Yeah, you can even buy tickets, actually. it's good to know that it's it's right before i travel to atlanta so where is it gonna be though in stockholm in stockholm okay that's perfect yeah at least for me very easy to organize well still not going to be easy but yeah We going to have to get some wristbands Yeah wristbands Yeah wristbands and stickers. Oh, by that time, we already have, yeah, the swags signed up. Much earlier than that. Okay, I just wanted to get back to Kevin's sort of question or comment. In my case, I'm actually a hobbyist. You know, like I was a software engineer when I started with Citigroup, but then moved on to other roles. Although I stayed on with coding, it's more a hobby for me rather than something that I actually need for a job or a project. But obviously, sticking with coding can help me run some of the meetup groups that I run here in London. And I wouldn't say I've got a favorite, honestly, because I'm like that. I deal with mobile platforms, with web and all that. So I wouldn't say I've got a favorite. But from what I've seen, Svelte is a lot simpler to learn. And I think the learning curve is not as difficult or as steep as other frameworks. Yeah. Yeah. Like I said, it's a recurring theme. People try it and it's just easy. I totally forgot when I was talking to, to mention Steph has a course coming out on Vercel. I actually have an intro to Svelte course coming out also on codingcat.dev. And I'm doing just an intro to Svelte for now, but I plan on adding more with SvelteKit later and how to host on Netlify. So I'm kind of excited about that. It should be out. The intro part should be out soon. Yeah. Cool. do you guys have links for all this so we can put it in the in in the old show notes i'll give you a link to the site i don't have the actual link yet because it's not live that makes sense cool cool all right i can i can talk about how i got to felt go for it because basically i mean i have to admit i've not tried react that much because um for the exact reason it describes why i like felt because i found it kind of inaccessible i did use it professionally at a company for a while and i I never really gelled with it. And so I sort of looked at other options. View is one of them, which I quite liked. View was around about the sort of point where I quite liked using it. I'd already come from Angular, so I knew Angular. And then Svelte was the one that kind of made sense. And I could use it. And I picked it up very quickly.

 And I was productive in it and I was putting things on prodding it within it within a week of even knowing it existed. And I think all of those factors together, the accessibility, and I mean like accessibility for somebody who's not a particularly strong front end or I wasn't at the time, mixed with it's sort of fast, it's discreet, it kind of doesn't put a big library in the browser so you can put it on other people's sites without feeling guilty. All that stuff together made it sort of a winner. And yeah, like Steph, I can't turn back now. Yeah. All right. So is there anything else that you guys want to talk about with regards to Svelte Sirens that we've missed? We're going to talk a bit about the future in a bit, but just wanted to... Okay. No. All right. I guess we head into the future then. So what have you guys planned? so I think I mentioned earlier that you know I would like to see like a community and people identifying themselves as for example specifically for you know for Svelte Sirens as Svelte Sirens members or Svelte Sirens or whatever we call them so there are obviously plans in terms of other things that are like virtual and accessible remotely and I think Brittany will talk about that in a bit. But for in-person involvement, there are plans. For example, Willow and I have already talked about doing a boot camp here in London. And I'm hoping that if that's successful, that that will be successful. And if it is, then we'll roll it out to other cities as well where we can. So yeah, that's one thing I think where we're looking to grow the community a bit more. And I'll hand it over to Brittany to talk about other bits and the other members of Sirens as well if there are other things you want to contribute with you guys in the plans. Yeah. Awesome. So currently we're doing the siren streams and I do them every two weeks with a guest. And unfortunately we don't have a lot of women and non-binary people in this felt community right now. I would love it to be all of those people on the streams, but I'm just trying to show some things to get some excitement for the space to help people drive people into our community. So I have tomorrow we have Luke Edwards coming on to teach us about Cloudflare We have Tomas Piros from Cloudinary coming in a few weeks And we have to reschedule for Supabase because John Myers is supposed to come on and do one Hopefully Willow is going to be able to jump on that stream and do that one So there some really exciting things coming I would love to do it more often and maybe get to where I could do it once a week. That would be great. Yeah. That's a huge commitment, actually. So congrats on what you've done so far. I've been really impressed. Thank you. I think so. So you mentioned Supabase here, isn't there? I think Andrew that's hosted Svelte Summit with me a couple of times is working as a dev rel at Supabase. And he's super into Svelte, if I remember correctly. Oh, cool. I had one planned with John and they had a baby. And so we had to reschedule it. So I don't know if you want to put me in touch with him. Maybe he could fill in. absolutely yeah so he goes by silent works yeah he's the one with the really sexy voice yes yes yeah so i guess that's it it's it's so hard to like go into detail when we're this many i'm not entirely sure where to go with this so if anyone has any ideas i'm very very open to suggestions. I think we've covered a lot with regard to Svelte Sirens and have talked about the important bits that people need to know so I think I'm happy with what we've covered so far. I'm not sure about others. No, I think so. I think we've went over all the things that we're doing currently and what we're looking forward to in the future. I just want to get people excited about Svelte and draw more women and non-binary people into the community. Give them a place where they can have a safe space to share and to get help and then just find other members that are like-minded. One last thing is you don't need to be like a Svelte whiz to join our community. If you haven't even used Svelte before, we still encourage you to join and learn about it. It's a perfect place for beginners. You can ask any questions or issues you run into, and you have all these people who want to help. So don't think you have to be really good at Svelte to join our community. And as people have heard from Brittany, from Willow, and Steph, and myself, we haven't really been that involved that long. So everyone started from knowing nothing about it. So yeah I agree with what Steph said there Don be afraid to just ask questions and get involved so just a 50 foot elevator pitch what will I get for joining Siren and what am I going to learn and what am I going to get from that why do I want to join it? Do you get a tattoo? for your response? well I guess it's yeah I guess it's you know I think it was Brittany who mentioned or Seth who mentioned that, you know, is what we're trying to create really is like a safe space for women and non-binaries to just get involved and allies, you know, as well to just get involved, share and learn together. So I think that's just one of the things that I wanted to highlight with regards to Spellsirons. Exactly. I think we all just want to have a sense of community and have people that not just think the same things that you do. That's not what you want and not that are the exact same person as you, but you want to have a space where you can share the things you're excited about or ask questions in a friendly manner. And so that's what we're trying to provide here and get people excited about Svelte. I think that's the main goal for everyone here. And an audience that's definitely listening and interested and excited for you. That's good. I like that. Absolutely. So I just had an idea. So the bootcamps that you were talking about, Jen, I wonder if we could bring those online somehow, maybe. We can do them online as well. But we want to try out, I think, the material first before doing that online. But yeah, definitely. We'd like to expand it once it's more mature. Definitely. So there are obviously there are a lot of resources that's being talked about right now. So Steph has a course, Brittany's coming up with the course. We're doing a bootcamp in person. And yeah, we're hearing you, Kevin, and your suggestion that we expand it virtually as well. So yeah, definitely we'll look into that. I think that's a great idea. I think Fernand Foxes does that maybe. And maybe the React Robins has some like kind of spin on that also. And I think it would be great. It's just more accessible to people online, but I understand like wanting to test content in person and I get that. Yeah All right Something to explore Okay So do you guys want to go into the unpopular opinions section Ooh yeah Yes I do Yeah okay People seem excited So if you don have one you don have to mention anything I usually don't have an unpopular opinion. I only have popular opinions, of course. But yeah. Like Jira's back? Yeah, absolutely. So maybe, Anthony, you've written something here. I've written something. I think looking at the list, it's a pretty agreeable bunch here today. We have very, very sort of mainstream opinions. My opinion is, of course, as always, completely on topic and relevant. I saw a Domino's van turn up to my house, not to my house, but to a neighbor's house earlier, and it sort of filled me with rage because I just don't believe that Domino's Pizza is pizza. It's just bread with this stuff on it. it's literally just like it's like this bread round bread product that doesn't really resemble a real pizza you know that sounds so unappetizing round bread product they should call it what it is you know just call it what it is it makes sense you know it's it's it's it's not that the dough isn't like pizza dough the toppings aren't tasty they're not healthy they're not like flavorsome or quality they're just like is pizza supposed to be healthy well yeah you know you can you can make a pizza you can make a piece i mean like like there's nothing inherently unhealthy about pizza it's bread with toppings put in an oven right there's not not overwhelmed with grease it's got probably a lot of cheese on it but then you know a good pizza doesn't have a wealth of cheese on it it has a bit of cheese on to you know augment the toppings um you know domino's pizza is different it's like they put those toppings on and they coat it in in cheese because they want to disguise cheap horrible ingredients right and and that's why domino's pizza isn't actually a pizza let's just call it domino's domino's circle bread um but anyway uh yeah i just you know if you if you if you like domino's i urge you to go and try different kinds of pizza uh that you may realize that you know relatively it's pretty bad yeah yeah i actually have i'm gonna I'm gonna riff on this. So my unpopular opinion is that Roman style pizza is better than Nepal... how do you say this? Neapolitan? Neapolitan style pizza? Neapolitan? Neapolitan, that's the one. Yeah, yeah, yeah, exactly. So Roman style pizza is like the, you get it by the weight in like squares, if you've ever had that.

 it's pretty nice yeah we do by the yard i think here for that that style it's very good i mean i like kind of all kinds of pizza i'm probably i don't know i'm torn between thin crust and thick crust i suppose but if you're talking about you know pizza that i really enjoy because i don't have it i don't have it that often it's the kind of the chicago style there's only one place near me that actually does it and whenever i look it's not actually open obviously it's a completely different dish again but because i never have it i really sort of crave it sometimes yeah i grew up in a suburb of chicago and i miss deep dish pizza every day every day i had it like a couple a couple weeks ago in chicago and it is delicious it is so good so i had exactly one in london uh anthony in hackney right no in soho it's i discovered it through a friend it is jappes oh i will i will it's a good one yeah yeah that's going in the show notes just for me i think um it's definitely good that sounds good i mean so the weird thing is i had it in palo alto of all places uh there's a place called paxtis um and they're like yeah eat this pizza and like try and eat one slice but you might not make it i'm like whatever and then you know and i didn't quite make one slice but anyway they were like oh get this honey and put it on the crust and i'm like what are you on about but when you do it it's like yes yes it's really good i've not had that before have you had pineapple yeah scott you and i should uh make a trip to soho yeah i'm in i mean that'd be fun i i so i have a side note on uh london and american food um so i was in london when shake shack arrived um i think it was in that or something and that was a huge line of shake shack and five guys arrived right so obviously everyone was like okay let's go compare both of them and recently i saw that popeye's opened the first store in london um yes and like there's always this huge rush so like basically i think there's a business in importing american like food chains into uh into london and then just marking it up and making it like really fancy There is. Did you hear that there was an In-N-Out pop-up recently? Oh, yeah. How did I go? Yeah I don know yet to be honest I just knew that it was happening So I wasn sure But I not a fan of In I think that my unpopular opinion Yeah I traveled to California a lot and my cast will always say no when I ever suggested we go to In-N-Out. And one time they agreed and I was underwhelmed, basically. Yeah, I'm going to lay into a secret, Sean, about these American import pop-ups. People who live in London don't eat at them. like we don't go to shake shack and we don't go to we're not popeyes hasn't been here very long but we don't we don't go to these places because they're just not particularly good so is it american tourists that are going there it's a it's probably local tourists because that's what happens right people from the uk go to other countries and mcdonald's as well which is i just don't understand but um yeah it is that but i think it's just tourists from other countries i think it's because it's a popular thing we have um baba gump shrimp's got this prime spot right in the middle of Chicago Square and it's just full of tourists. There's no one native goes in there. I know I'm a tourist but yes I love Bulbago shrimp. It's so good. I love the movie. I love the seafood. It's great. It's like, yeah, they ask you quizzes and they celebrate birthdays with you. It's amazing. I ate it in an airport once. It was brought to you by Bulbago shrimp. Yeah, right. I ate it in an airport once. It was very nice but I've not got to one in London, no. I mean, I went once but it was not me who dragged us there. So does anyone else have any unpopular opinions about pizza or any other topic? Any food. Yeah, I hate to. Oh, God. Pineapple has to go on pizza. That's a thing here. That's a thing here. Yes. Pineapple and pizza. I don't have a food one. I just don't want to distract from all this food conversation that's going on. I love how Kevin put in her notes, storybook question mark, because that's kind of how I feel about it. I love the idea of Storybook. It seems like it's great. You have this component library. You can see your components. You can play with the props. You can visually see the documentation and then see how the code looks. And it's great in theory. And I don't know if it has to do with our specific API that we're creating at work, but Storybook errors are garbage. They are just the absolute worst. They're not descriptive. They don tell you what happened If you change the name of a story like the title of a story your page just shows this gigantic error and it doesn tell you what that means It just says that it doesn exist anymore which kind of makes sense But it took me a long time to realize I just need to click on a story that actually exists. And so I just, I need some more descriptive errors from Storybook, I think. There's quite a few alternatives to Storybook. There are alternatives. Like Veep Book and Spence. I don't have a choice on what I'm using at work, unfortunately. I wish I I did. I mean, I personally prefer just using Svelte knobby and the Svelte component. I mean, I might just be out of fashion, but always much easier. We did end up getting the Svelte example with Storybook to work, which was kind of interesting. I mean, that was really difficult. And we had to change a whole lot of configs and get Vite to work with Webpack. And it was a nightmare. I do not suggest using that. Yeah, that doesn't sound fun. so willow you're actually the first user as felt nobi have ever come across well i mean i learned about it because of um fractal so there's two it's fractal it's brady yeah he did the music for uh for uh for the and more importantly the bubble things yes more importantly yeah yeah you know who it is okay so so this is like a story i mean it's weird because you have to change the code and the whole point of storybook is you don't have to change the code I don't know maybe I need to work this out so you have to physically type in the prop and change the code there yeah so that's storybook yeah you just can't eat it it's terrible yeah alright Sean, Willow, Steph, Jen any of you have any? opinions not for me jen's was that she didn't like in and out oh sorry i missed that sorry sorry sorry it's okay i thought we were stuck in the in the like the american food um yeah well i'll second that um all right every every californian is hyped up in and out to me and i just do not get it it's too greasy uh yeah i mean yeah i don't know if anyone any of you will relate to this, but I live in Texas and everyone's obsessed with Whataburger and I just don't get the hype. It gross honestly So that my unpopular opinion Texas edition I never had water burger no it not good how do you spell that is that like water burger w yeah you know what i have relatives in san antonio and they took me to one of those i think and again i wasn't impressed yeah it's just not good but everyone every like native texan will tell you it's the best burger and it's just not really best burger in london is it's got to be um crap i forgot the name of it how bad is that i haven't been out for so long because of covid because of like lockdown um is it gbk no no no no no no that's that's new that's kiwi anyway oh honest burger patty and bun honest is very good but patty and bun is just epic ours here is Stella's and they're stuffed burgers and they have like anything you want inside so you can get cheese or jalapenos it is delicious love it I'm so hungry we can't get off since we're doing local yeah I'm also hungry since we're doing local food I'm going to shout out a Singapore chain called Moss Burger it's like their chicken burger they have like a It's like 90% chicken patty. And then there's like a bit of veggie. It's really good. Why is it a little bit of veggies? Is it to make it healthy? Or is it onions a lot? The appearance of health, yeah. Like instead of fries, you can swap it out for more chicken. That's not like that. Wow. Keto version. Chicken overload. I need to go to Singapore and have that. That does sound pretty good. KFC is rubbish as well okay that's two opinions sorry yeah that's one too many Willow do you also hate burgers no I don't I do not like KFC though so I have a question do you think okay sorry maybe I'll just end the food conversation with this do you think that we will switch over to meat replacements in our lifetime do you think it will be a point in your life where you will not eat meat ever no i think yeah i mean for me i can't taste the difference i mean i'm not like i know i'm don't take food too seriously so but um i'm just i didn't switch because i'm just a bit lazy

 really yeah it's gonna be more convenient though you know like let's say 10 years from now 20 years from now it'll happen yeah i think it'll get more convenient i think it'll be more easy like like there won't be an excuse for being lazy anymore really yeah yeah maybe that's what i kind of think we will because as you know as uh willow was saying sometimes you can tell the difference now because they're so good that you think you're eating meat but you after it's not meat uh and i've tried you know some dishes some some dishes like that and and i you know i was i'm a foodie and i like my food and i must say that i've been happy trying some of those you know meat uh substitutes so i think eventually we will uh so i i think i agree with with you jen because i was going to say a similar thing that i'm definitely eating less meat than i used to and everyone i know is eating less meat than they used to but not consciously and not because of you know ethical reasons or anything like that or health or anything like that it's just because there are more alternatives now and people are realizing that they're not bad and a good vegetarian restaurant will make food that tastes as good as the best meat dish you know because it's what they specialize in so it's easier now to actually find this sort of stuff and it's on every menu but what i will say is i think willow obviously says yes we will and i'm saying no we won't switch in our lifetimes but i think one thing to note is that willow's got a lot more lifetime left than i have so i think that's fair we can kind of both be right oh well sure sure but i guess my point is that yeah it's definitely possible but i i from the people who like me no one's gonna say like oh i'm gonna give up me entirely no one's ever said that to me i think that people do genuinely like meat i mean we all we all do i suppose i think that too with i it will become more accessible and easier to get and things like that the cost will come down but i don't think steakhouses are going away no so yeah definitely not yeah so i don't think not in texas and speaking of age we have to talk about throwing a 40th birthday bash for us that are turning 40 this year at svelte summer in stockholm and he's not going to talk because he doesn't want people yeah i don't know i kind of kind of find these like meat uh meat substitutes pretty expensive like they're oftentimes like as expensive as meat which is strange it even more expensive absolutely it hard to justify it if it like the twice the price yeah i mean for me it not just it not just about the meat it like if you're trying to be fully vegetarian there's like other foods you can't eat because they have meat related products in like like some like chocolate and sweets and stuff like that and proper food other proper foods you know that i think that's the harder part about it yeah yeah maybe all right is that is that our unpopular opinions it's it's all about food except britney's storybook thing i think storyboard storybook's basically a food and i think she's just like trying to fool all right so uh so i guess we go into picks and i wonder what we'll pick could it be food i don't know i have an on topic pick for this podcast for spelt sirens so in april we have amy dutton she is self-teach me on twitter and youtube and she is doing a talk on testing in spelt and spelt kit and that is april 15th so look for more info in the discord coming soon with the marketing information and time and that stuff cool cool that's a great pick anyone else have any uh so i have a pick and um it's it's a very kind of niche one but i thought i'd go with it anyway um so you know hoses right water your garden with and they kind of roll up on a big reel and they always get kinks in them and then they stop water stop water stops flowing through them and they're a pain and they're heavy and bulky so i recently discovered expanding hoses which are like made of latex i think and they have a a weird cover that kind of lets them expand to about three times their length so it just sticks you know it sort of goes in a little bag and then when you plug it in and you pull it it stretches and stretches and stretches and you can water your garden with it and then when you let go it constantine is back into it into its bag it's like a snake it's like a snake interesting it's just amazing and i think like this why why did original hoses have exist i mean it's great yeah you do have to be careful with them like if they get caught on a briar or something they poke they uh poke through and leak so yeah they're not they're not quite as um uh resilient what is a briar by the way like a thorn on a rose bush is a what i call a briar being from georgia yeah i never heard of well i heard of it but i don know what it means now we know i think maybe we we do have them because i heard of a place called briars brook but yeah i don know yeah cool all right yeah hoses anyone you always have the best picks anthony well yeah all right anyone else have any cool picks fun picks anything off topic on topic well okay i'll just mention something that i've been trying out recently probably changed uh uh quite a bit of like how i look on camera which is not applicable here because we're recording without a camera but i actually tweeted so it's always bothered me that there's this big gap right so i got a webcam at the start of covid and i was like okay this is good but like look at all these fancy people with their dslrs so then i got a dslr and it was like like a huge, like the webcam is like 150 bucks. DSLR is like maybe 700, maybe 800 if you're going with all the stuff with it. And I was like, okay, what? And like, it's so clunky. It's not portable. It's really bad. So I was like, why is nobody working on a webcam with DSLR quality, right? If you care about your video and you don't mind spending a bit more, but then you want it in a webcam format with webcam convenience. So I tweeted that out. And then I got a message from Lumina and I've been trying it out the past week. And I think it's really nice. Like it's basically hard to do DSLR as a webcam because like you need some power source. There's weight considerations and all that. So they're actually using AI to enhance it. So like if I move my hand or if I try to show something to the camera, it actually focuses automatically on that thing that I'm trying to show. So if I move my head around it, it actually follows along with me and it does white balance auto correction as well. So I thought it was pretty cool. So, yeah, that's my pick, I guess, Lumina. It's a new startup, I guess. They're just trying to get off the ground. That's cool that it follows you around like that FaceTime thing, like it tracks you. That's really cool. People are usually surprised that I use my phone as my camera. And the only problem with it is that I can't use my phone. So if I get an important phone call, I can't use it. But it does like the autofocus thing. but that would be really cool if it tracked like that yeah the like phones are usually pretty good but they're they can be a bit finicky to to set up i've found yeah i started doing that so i got a gorilla pod uh you know the tripods with like the bendy legs and it just like a balancing game on top of one of my monitors at the moment but it very good i have to send a picture because i have the gorilla pod hooked onto my ring light nice i think we last episode we talked a bit because i i think i picked the uh the dslr camera here if i remember correctly and i think we also mentioned the camera called opal which is supposed to be some some probably something similar to to lumina yeah but yeah it's definitely like ripe for for disruption i feel okay cool any other picks i'm i'm blanking so i'm i'm just gonna pass i think uh yeah it'd be about can it be about it could be supporting Ukraine. It can be absolutely it can be about anything. It could be a TV show. For me it's just all the organizations that you can donate to I guess for Ukraine those are my picks and I just want to highlight I just actually had I had breakfast today with someone who came just came from Lviv actually basically living in a war zone, basically. Although Lviv is not as bad as the other cities. But yeah, it just kind of reminded me again that there's still a lot of things that we need to do to help people in Ukraine. So yeah. Good pick. My picks are all these organizations you can donate. And we'll try to find one that we can also link to in the description. so people can easily donate. Oh, speaking of that, we do have on our logo on our website, spelt sirens.dev, there is a little flag that links off to a site where you can donate. Oh, yeah. Great. We'll take that one. That seems reasonable. Cool. All right. Cool. Steph, Willow, do you have any picks? Nah, I'm linking also. Yeah. It's hard, right? Yeah. yeah i guess we'll uh i guess we'll have to do with uh four picks all right so i guess that's it um does anyone else have any any last few thoughts or ideas or um i think it's still early days uh

 Early Days for Svelte and Svelte Sirens. I think that there's a lot of growth left in what we can possibly do as a community. And if people are seeing out there, there's all these people and they all have opinions. No, we actually need more ideas. And I think we're all trying to figure it out. We have day jobs, but we all are here in our free time or for most of us in our work time. because we love the framework and we love the people that we've met so far. So if anyone listening to this is interested in joining in, please do. 100%. Definitely. Yeah. All right. So where can people find you all? On Twitter? On Discord? Yeah. Sveltsirens.dev has an about section with all of us in there. And I am at Brittany Postma most places. So that's B-R-I-T-T-N-E-Y-P-O-S-T-M-A. It really annoying to spell I know but I link the about page Yep And I coderinhales on Twitter and Instagram I Steph underscore deets underscore on Twitter And this.stephy pretty much everywhere else. I'm only space ghost on Twitter. Nice. Cool. All right. Yeah. Thanks for coming on and talking to us about Svelte Sirens. I think you guys should come back at some point. so we can see if there's been any progress, which I'm almost certain there will have been. So, yeah. Yeah. Thank you so much for having us. I really appreciate it. And absolutely, we'd love to come back. I know we've been trying to get this in the works for a while. So I'm glad we all found time and seven people's heart. Yeah. We managed. We managed to do it. I think we did pretty well, considering. Yep. Yeah. All right. I think so. So with that said, goodbye, everyone. And yeah. Thanks. Talk to you later. Bye. Bye. Bye. Thanks. Bye.