 Hi, everyone. Welcome to another episode of Svelte Radio. Today we have another guest, Amelia Wattenberger. Is that how you say it? Yeah. That's good. All right. Perfect. Would you want to introduce yourself? Yeah. Hi, I'm Amelia. Man, I haven't introduced myself in my current job yet. I am I guess my job title is journalist engineer um I work at a site called the pudding and we do like data driven um interactive visual stories cool cool so as always I'm I'm Kevin and I run Svelte School a site about learning about Svelte I guess that's easy enough um Anthony uh so my name is anthony i'm a spelt maintainer i'm also the cto of a company called bionk which is a platform for travel providers to take bookings payments manage their inventory all that sort of good stuff great all right so let's let's start off with your job title What's a journalist engineer? That's a great question. Yeah, it's new to me. I started this job about five months ago. I was previously working as like a full, you know, typical front-end developer. So this is definitely a shift into something a little bit more creative. So the pudding is about eight people right now. So it's pretty small and everyone at the company spans like the entire stack. Like we all do the journalism bits, the design bits, the development bits. It's pretty amazing to be in a team with such talented co-workers. So I guess all of us, what we do is we will take an idea from conception, figure out a good data source, do the data analysis, create a mini site to highlight that data while writing an article about it that brings readers through the data and then through publishing And I am actually the first hired to only work on the client side so I do this with you know big brands like Google or research research institutions where if they want to highlight their research in kind of like a more human-friendly way then we'll go and we'll we'll help them make like a like a very interesting site about it cool so just interesting so you're aware of rich harris and i assume you must be right in the industry and how do you how do you closely do you think your job aligns with kind of what he does as well because he also has that type of like journalistic engineer or or yeah yeah for sure um he so he's working at the new york times so i because um their publication the upshot is so like widely known it's often what I'll compare my job to I'll say I'll create articles like the upshot I think one difference is they're very much on the news cycle whereas the things I'll work on like it's not breaking news it's not anything time sensitive it's just it's a little bit more slower paced and like we really get to publish kind of like more evergreen content so it'll still be relevant you know a few months from now um other than that that's a great question i'd love to ask it myself i don't know how his day-to-day differs so what what kind of tools do use that the put was it deep pudding or just pudding the pudding a specific pudding um yeah great question so it really depends who's making the article um i think there's a lot of latitude just to kind of build however you want to build which was awesome for me coming in um I had primarily been building in React before I joined and kind of had my eye on Svelte. I was like, hey, I kind of want to test this out. And it's really kind of perfect for what we do. I think like one it really easy to understand if you just know HTML CSS JavaScript whereas React or Vue or Angular you kind of have to learn the framework before you know jumping in Whereas I feel like someone who less comfortable with frameworks could jump right into a Svelte project because it's familiar, right? It's pretty much just HTML. so so you've been so you've been working in react mostly before before before this right so so what are like some of the pain points with with using react when it comes to like visualize like your kind of work right yeah um the biggest ones have to do with there's a lot of things that are kind of built into as well that you have to build yourself with react um like i just parted one of my contract projects from svelte over to react last night and there's things like um like the bind client width like you can there's like you type two words or four words and you have a variable that updates whenever an element size updates and like to do that in react um you can have a hook but you're still gonna have to like make a ref and then hook it up to the element and then like have some kind of um resize observer or like window resize event um it's just like a lot more overhead there that Svelte kind of just handles for you so that is like amazing to just have built in because that's like basically any chart I make you're gonna need to do that um because SVG doesn't resize do you do you think that maybe a lot of these features that React is kind of missing stems from the fact that Svelte was built for a specific purpose which was like well exactly what you do basically yeah do you think a lot of that comes from from that and it just happens to be really useful for like main web apps anyway I do wonder that I and like that's a big reason why it was so interested because I was like well it's got to be you know great for this kind of work like this is what he's doing and then he built it for this purpose. Although a lot of really great frameworks come out of newsrooms, like Django, I think, was originally for some Kansas newsroom. That makes sense. Go ahead Yeah I wonder if it has to do with the news cycle and it it being so so short right They have to they have to produce a lot in a short time Yeah Very quickly And I also think like having worked on a product before, there's something really nice about having like a very, a much smaller scope for the projects that you're working on. You really have to know your build tools. You really have to like understand what's going on. And it's a lot easier to understand when you're building things that are a little smaller. Whereas like, if you work on this big product, there's so much other things like, like, you know, you have to understand like, like state global state isn't as big of a thing when you're building these smaller sites and stuff like that. So I think like, you really understand the stack and you really have to know it and you really have to be able to like wield it create new sites all the time um that gives you a really good understanding it's largely very similar yeah as in the languages are similar or or like the products end up similar what so what do you mean by similar is that sort of interesting yeah so i'll i'll scope like components the same like if i have uh you know an app that's felt I'll create an app.jsx. It's like port it over to React. And then like the biggest changes, right? You'll change like on mount from Svelte to use effect in React. And then, you know, your imports are all the same. The biggest change, I guess, is like the rendering language, like React is using JSX. So something I actually really like about it is that it's all JavaScript. So as much as you know JavaScript, you know how to write JSX, like instead of like a specific each, like this felt template language, hashtag each, you're going to do like this object.map and then just map over an object, which is both really nice because then like, it's kind of obvious how to use that and how to change it. But it's also kind of annoying because it's a little, like, people always complain about, like, the way you do, like, a Boolean render in React, like, the conditional rendering. Like, you'll do the, like, Boolean statement and then ampersand, ampersand, and then that's, like, an if statement, but it's not really obvious.

 it's kind of that's the kind of thing that i i don't mind react as a concept i think it's pretty good i haven't used it really since hooks but i know that hooks are what's felt kind of based on it's pretty cool the thing that actually got me was the jsx thing because i've always been pushing and always learned through my career that the more that you can make uh logicless templates that the better and easier something fits together and reacts just kind of i mean reacts going against a lot of things right and for a lot of reasons that it's a good thing but um for me those those logicless templates in react or if the logic and the templates all buddled together how do you get around how do you keep your code readable when everything's kind of rendered by javascript because it seems to me sometimes people just go right overboard with it and like you said using ampersand ampersand and yeah it can be frustrating there's some nice things about having jsx as kind of like a a first what do you call a first class language like when you're writing like like I'll often make like an icon component and in React you can kind of just throw around these like JSX strings whereas in Svelte if you want to use the templating language it has to be a Svelte component I'm not explaining that well like in in React like I can have an array of JSX like JSX elements but in Svelte you can't really do that like you have to like parse a string or you know yeah you'd have to build an array and then like iterate it within each or something like that it would yeah yeah it's more it's more like they're getting separated i guess yeah makes sense yeah all right so so what what encouraged you to to try svelte um i forget the first side project i tried with it um i don't know it was getting a lot of hype I think I also watched one of the seminal Rich Harris talks and I love how opinionated he is yeah I think um I think it's great like for someone to have such strong opinions and then to like act on them um and try to bring them to life so I thought that was great I was a little like scooped out at first by the the like you have this like two-way reactive binding whereas being in React land, it's very simple and very comfortable to have the one data flow So to be able to update a variable by just like having like a new assignment made me very uncomfortable at first Other than that it was like a great onboarding process. That's one part of React. I never really understood why why two-way binding was that bad. Because I think that's partially because I don't know what came before when apparently, you know, I guess it came from Angular where people were kind of burned by the magicness of two-way binding all over the app. Yeah, yeah, definitely. But like Svelte doesn't do that. Svelte does local two-way binding just within the component. You can't do two-way binding anywhere else, right? I don't know. That's kind of how I think about it. Although you can bind. like so when I was porting this project over to React I had this one like subcomponent that you have like find prop and then you can kind of like keep those updated whereas in React you need a callback that'll update it that way but having worked on large Angular Angular 1 or Angular 2 projects in the past like it gets very scary because things will be changing you don't know where they're changing you can't you have no way to like query like why why is this value the way it is um it gets i think it gets scary yeah i think i think that's why rich is very in favor of um a model of like a single a single unidirectional flow of data right so that so that you you can technically bind and bind and bind and bind up a big chain of components but if you do that you're doing it intentionally for some bizarre reason and i think the general concept is use stores or just use binding between two components and i think that that goes along with his reasoning of how he how he thinks data should flow which which which makes perfect sense to me and it's the thing that angular didn't really didn't enforce in any meaningful way and that's why people got really burned by angular's crazy observers all over the place and stuff so so yeah i think that's absolutely absolutely right yeah yeah there's always this trade-off with um with frameworks with like how much magic is there and i feel like Angular is on the extreme end of like, you can write two lines of code and have like a to-do list. And like, it's really great when you're first starting out and you're like, wow, I'm so powerful. But then it can get like it you can exactly follow the logic everywhere and there always like gotchas you have to understand the framework and then like I feel like Svelte and React are on this other end where like it's a pretty minimal framework like to understand the API you know it's maybe an hour of your time if you're familiar with frameworks um sure yeah I mean I this actually kind of segues into another question I've got and then I'll stop asking questions for a minute give someone else a go but um the question is literally you also know c++ right i have i have tried to use c++ i definitely wouldn't say i know it you built something in c++ and that i'm just impressed by that overall to be honest it was definitely a glimpse into this other world of like memory management and yeah it was pretty fun project um at my first job we had just like this very fun exploratory arm where they're like just do whatever you want so we had a big um south by southwest party coming we were in austin with like i forget it was like local natives or spoon was gonna play it was like we were like a 40 person company like this is very exciting so i was like all right well we need a photo booth so i set up a webcam and then it did some face tracking and I found your face and our mascot was a luchador the Mexican wrestlers so it put like a Mexican wrestler mask on your face and it was great but also I didn't know C++ and like that was the way to do it pick a nice simple project like face tracking then sure I mean I did C++ because there is a like wonderful face tracking library like I did not build this from scratch but it was just like um frantic googling i mean c plus is i i did it in university and i've never ever really understood it at all anything like even integrating a second library with it so it's good yeah yeah it definitely gives you respect for like these people who work on work in these other programming languages or even like with hardware like there's all these rabbit holes that I don't know anything about and I'm not sure I want to know anything about like I'm happy in a little web playground yeah I'm four I'm definitely four gl and above like keep me keep me up there I not getting too low level it just my dad writes assembly code my dad writes literally assembly code I like I he like I can understand your language because it all words why would you want that and I like what on earth is the mob bush like yeah yeah both my parents are programmers of like the you know like old days programmers and like they're just different kinds of people like my dad said recently he taught himself Fortran from a book he didn't have a computer i'm like i'm like what is that possible we've de-skilled a bit haven't we we've de-skilled a bit yeah all the stuff for sure wow comes with productivity though right the the higher level programming languages yeah so svelte recipes what's what's that oh yeah so at the pudding um i found myself repeating code um like especially hey i want to make a new chart um and then there's all this like boilerplate like uh binding the width to a container div and you know maybe having a spring or a tweened uh array that kind of interpolates the values for you so you can animate it um and so i think the first okay so svelte recipes is just a site of recipes that i use a lot um and it's it's really important for me at work because i'm often starting new projects um this is something that definitely wasn't a thing at my old job but like every week or so I'll start a new project and then I'll be starting from scratch. So it's really nice to have things like, like there's like an icon component in there where, you know, it has some directionality, like you can North, Southeast, West, rotate the icons, which is really handy for things like arrows. And then I want to add a lot of things like toggles, like, you know, I don't want to build a new toggle every time I start a website. Yeah. So that means you're going to add more stuff to it? I'm planning on it. That's great. I'm definitely not a disciplined side project creator. Who is though? I guess that's true.

 Yeah. So whenever, whenever the inspiration strikes me, I want it to be like pretty fully built out and I'm happy for other people to, to help out as well. Do you have a, do you have a, like a GitHub repo or. Yeah. Yeah. There's a GitHub repo that it's, I'm pretty bad at documentation. So there's definitely no process for contributing or I probably have like just the basics felt read me. well there isn't really much there's not much for contributing personal svelte to be honest you know we're working on it yeah yeah um so so well so one observation and then and then one question um so like one observation is uh i i think actually the kind of jobs that we have really determine the output that we have like you don't it's not until you work on like if you work on a single product then you don't really care about extracting for reusability because it's already in your code but then if you like start a lot of new small things like like at a at a news site for example like like what you're doing uh for me you know i do a lot of demos so i have to start from scratch every time and then hopefully um speed up so um you know different kinds of jobs like lead you towards different kinds of inspirations and i feel like you know rich's job led him to create salt and it's very much like i need these things right now and um and like yeah I'll take the hit of, you know, setting up this infrastructure so that I'll be more productive in the future. I feel like that's what you're doing here with this thing. I don't know. It's cool. Open source utils.js. Everyone should do that. I kind of feel like a lot of these are actually hidden in the Svelte REPL. Like, you know, when we save, it's just in there. And we just need a way to give permission to share it. You know? Have you used the REPL? I did once. I had trouble making a JavaScript file. And then that was an Svelte file. And then I gave up. Oh. Oh. Maybe that should be. Yeah. Yeah. I think that there are a lot of people that stumble on that, I think. Yeah. It's weird. I don't know. We should have the default template. Just have a .js file and then import it just to show how it works. Yeah. People have suggested this but the problem is that the more you have the more there is to delete And it like people go in there they just want a fresh blank template and then create you know I think it just like a UI thing maybe People find out in JS files hard. If there is like a readme that just tells you how, that'd be great. That is a good point. There isn't a readme for the repl. Well, yeah, that was the PR that we got. It was like a huge readme with some example components and all this stuff but it's like you're gonna delete that when you start and i just go in there and start typing straight away it's fine for the first ever visit maybe it should be like a browser local storage thing or something i don't know just like a page that's linked to it would be great yeah well so i don't know if you've seen the typescript playground which is also a repl um and the typescript playground they just offer like a drop down of a bunch of examples that you can check out right that's good yeah load some pre-made stuff uh with some comments and explain what's going on. That's probably it. Yeah, it'd be great. Other than that, it's a great playground. And I like to see what it compiles to. Yeah. And then I guess for me, playing around with this, I'm just like, I'm having so much fun with the scatterplot stuff, basically. It's so performance. It is. I guess that's D3 doing it. Let's see. So yeah, well, you click on it, and then it just like moves circles around. So that's only using the built-in spring, like the physics engine. So you can see it's getting imported at the top, and then you have this dots variable, which is it uses spring um which has like stiffness and damping which um I love it because a lot of like animation systems you're you have some kind of duration and like the easing curve but with spring it's a little bit um more lifelike uh is that your go-to then uh you prefer that over easing curves you know I never use it but just because it's like not built into d3 and I guess I never think to, but I want it to be. I should be using it more. I think it feels a little bit better. And then, so it's only using D3 to make these scales, the X scale Y scale R scale and color scale I also noticed you used the reactive labels to do the scales Yeah I guess that like when you add any pieces of information it just automatically recalculates. Yeah, yeah. So the scales are using the data. I think it's a prop. Yeah, so when you use a scatterplot component, you just throw like an array of data in here. and then whenever data is updated this um the x scale which is just mapping like here's a value where does that sit horizontally um in the chart yeah so it switches like a data value to an x position um it'll just update that whenever data is updated or the width is updated um so so easy to do um like if you're doing this in react you'll probably like i don't know use memo and then have that dependency and then like i don't know it's like a definitely a few more steps in react so it's really nice to just say like oh a dollar sign colon update this whenever these things are changed i feel like so i've you know i've seen a a bunch of like how to use react with d3 talks and uh yeah there's generally like a few different levels and approaches it's kind of like where do you want the framework to take over and where do you want d3 to take over i felt like svelte is fighting d3 a lot less i i don't know if that's like um yeah i mean basically like sometimes you want um uh you know sometimes you want to react to be responsible for more stuff within the rendered output. And then sometimes you want Svelte, sometimes you want D3 to be more responsible because D3 can do the drawing as well. But I guess here what you're doing is, and I see this a lot, especially with how Rich uses D3 as well, like you're using the D3 utilities, but you're not actually using D3 for rendering. Yeah, yeah. So yeah, that's my big thing with using D3 with JavaScript frameworks. So D3, if you aren't familiar, is the de facto library for creating data visualization on the web. It's been around for, I don't know, since jQuery days. And it's basically just a collection of different repos different modules And some of I split them out like some of them will help like the scales will help map like data values onto physical values like horizontal position or colors some of them will help with like creating maps so like geographic projections and some of them are like this is kind of more the jQuery side like they're there to update the DOM and manipulate it and kind of like change the structure of the web page and those parts make me a little bit uncomfortable to use them with a JavaScript framework because the framework's there to like know the DOM structure especially especially React which you know has um it's not a shadow DOM I don't know they have their virtual DOM and like their diffing algorithm like they know they want to know what's there so they know when to update it and like they kind of fight against each other if like d3 is changing that as well um and you're kind of just like removing any benefits you get from the framework so i think i would stay away from using that with either react or svelte because um it just like gets complicated it gets a little bit hacky to like use these two frameworks that don't know anything about each other to also update the same thing um yeah i mean i think felt suffers less from that um because it doesn't use a virtual dom for example i actually don't know either um but it doesn't use one of those but obviously um it can cause issues because felt does keep a track of kind of what's what's there and stuff so but yeah it's it's um i didn't really consider that actually i just i just noticed reading the code now that it's separate from yeah yeah for those who might be interested um amelia has this amazing blog post called how to learn d3.js i don't know how i don't know how long you spend on this amelia but it's amazing and i wish i had it when i learned d3 it's completely ridiculous the blog post i spend the most time on get the least attention and then i like put together this one on like what is percent mean in CSS I spent like you know five hours on it like it's gotten like way more attention than this other one that I spent on like what is D3 which you know I spent days on that. You went through everything in D3 and then like you can hover over it and you can see so like you know D3 has so many modules that it's hard to hold in your head and uh

 Honestly, this should be in the docs. It makes it that much easier to dig in and find what you want. But yeah, that's a little interesting. Maybe also you're becoming more productive. It's definitely not the case, but thank you. I think you probably also spent a few days on the React hooks one, and that was a blockbuster, I think, at least in my world. That was definitely less work. The blog posts that took the most work are the D3, what are the different modules, and then using React and D3, which I'm still working on it, but not actively. Oh, it's still working in progress? Oh, yes, under construction. Yeah, not disciplined. All right. So now that you've used Svelte for a bit, what do you think are the downsides? Where do you think Svelte could improve? Yeah, I've been thinking about this. Whenever I use it, I'm like, where are the gotchas? One thing I'm super curious about, and it's going to be hard for me to articulate this. So when we talk about Svelte versus React, we often talk about each component gets turned into this bundle of JavaScript that doesn't then need a library. If you bind something to the client width, to the element width, then that'll kind of be thrown into the compiled code of the component itself. So you don't need to rely on a main library. in my head, my first reaction is there's got to be a downside to that. Like if, if an application gets large enough, are you repeating that code over and over? Like if you have a bunch of components that bind to the element with, do you, are you just repeating that? And then like at some point, maybe it's felt application is larger compiled than a react application. And I haven't tested this out yet, but. There is actually a really small runtime that comes with Svelte, actually. I not entirely sure exactly what in it Maybe Anthony knows more there There some bits of it yeah So yes originally Svelte did repeat itself a lot right So the bigger the app got, the more repeated code you'd have. The little mini runtime, it's basically a set of utility functions that enter probably a bundle. It's not exactly a runtime. It's just more to reduce the repetition of code. but that's been done because of those um the complaints people saying that you know you building a non-trivial lab ends up with a bigger bundle i still don't from what i remember and understand what i've read i don't think you'd end up with a bigger application um in svelte than another framework and i think that's due to the fact that svelte's quite terse um but yes there's definitely like like that kind of little mini runtime which does de-duplicate some repetition but it does exist yeah of course it's already been thought of um well like you know i think it matters if the crossover like there's a there's a crossover point uh like i think you know what you're saying is right it's an intuition that a lot of people have um i think rich actually addressed it in uh the small society day like the conference that we had um he gave like the closing keynote and he talked about that a little bit i think the difference matters if like there is a crossover point is it a hundred components or is it a hundred thousand components because if it's a hundred thousand I don't care um and if it's a hundred then then that's something that we need to start uh thinking about trade trade-offs but I think his point is that because we have a template language that we compile from um we always like we could like Svelte can upgrade behind the scenes um to to deduplicate or do whatever um while whatever we write still stays the same. So if we ever get there, if it starts being like a scene as a community problem, we can take care of it behind the scenes while like nothing that we write changes. So I'm a little bit comforted by that. And then the other thing I also wanted to point you to is if you do investigate this on your own, there's a Svelte compiler handbook that kind of shows you a little bit of the internals. And for me in particular, when I went through and looked at the compiler output. So it's under spell.js slash spell, like the GitHub repo, and some source slash compiler. And there's like a utils folder that is basically the runtime which is everything that being used And it really small They not kidding when they say I think it actually probably almost it's just like the way that they do these things is like they basically have an alias for every single DOM API. And then we just use the alias. I think that makes it easier to minify. But it's not like a runtime runtime like some of the other frameworks. So those are the two thoughts that I have. But I'm interested to see if you ever dig into it. Yeah. Yeah. That's great to hear that. It's already been handled mostly. Hopefully. Right. So, so do you, do you still use a Svelte day to day? Like, Oh, for sure. Yeah. Um, and are you working on anything fun? I am. I don't, I have to ask, because this is a new job. I have to ask about like, what we can say about client projects it's definitely client work is definitely new to me so I don't know I'm used to just like blabbing about everything um let's see yes it's definitely fun yeah that's good well like just just in your in your line of like do they have to sign off on what framework you use or do they not care? They do not care for the most part. Sometimes we'll have to, some of the contract projects that I've been doing on this side, they'll want to integrate with their app and then like if it's a React app, I'll build it in React but if they don't care, I'll typically do it in Svelte. It just seems easier at this point. that's great to hear yeah obviously react and view and whatnot are our runtime uh languages and spell is compiled do you think based on what you've seen and you know what you know about react do you think there's a movement or or a consideration maybe people start moving towards compiled uh compiled frameworks compile languages um it definitely feels that way like we had all those blog posts about you know the downsides of the modern web and like how websites are getting you know a little bit heavy like my website I use react it's like this massive react app which is like completely ridiculous but it kind of my playground so for the most part it doesn bug me but i think there is definitely a movement of like moving like cutting away some cruft and like making things a little bit lighter especially with like um there's that article about like the carbon impact from like react apps which yeah yeah makes me definitely a little bit uncomfortable well it's like i i don't know if i read it but i i assume the gist is this is like a great way to explain something i assume the gist is like the amount of javascript that computers are are executing you know that takes energy like this is like as much as we love the web to be like in its own world like it does interface with the real world and hardware and you know if if so many people are running your massive javascript application then you know that's real energy that has to be created so and i can't like i agree with the concept i agree with that in theory that's great but i read a stat the other day something like if if all the americans who have flatter tires than they should be if they all put them to regulation they'd save three percent of the us's energy right so it feels like it's a great thing to aim for but it's just very contrived almost yeah yeah for what it's worth rich has made that argument before right yeah he did he did he did it in one of his talks, right? Yeah, JSCAN Barcelona. He had like this image of the world on fire and he was like you swelped and the world will not be on fire. It'll be a little bit less. The fire will be cooler. If only it was that easy to save the world, right? Switch to spelt. Right. I'm a hero. I was just going to say that we can relate Svelte to tie us pumping up somehow. I don't know. Let's think in some ways. Yeah. Yeah. So, so you have this, this book on D3, right? Full stack D3. I do. And I can see there are chapters on React and Angular in there, but certain, certain framework is missing there. I was thinking about adding a chapter on Svelte. The hard thing is...

 is, yeah, so the hard thing is like originally we scoped it that way, React in Angular, because Vue is so similar to React, right? Like the same rules kind of apply, right? It's used D3 as utility framework, utility library, instead of, you know, modifying the DOM with it. So it's hard to justify writing another chapter that kind of says the same thing, but with different syntax, but maybe it's worth at least a blog post. Yeah. Yeah. All right. That's good enough for me. Done. I guess before we, before we kind of go to picks, one of the things I, you know, was hoping to learn from you, it was, was also kind of your creative process, because I feel like you use technology as like a creative tool a little bit, and that, that obviously permeates a lot of your work um just um do you have one or does it just spring you know out of out of uh your head and it just flows into your onto your keyboard um and uh yeah maybe maybe maybe one one of the ways is kind of take take us through one of the the uh you know the projects or the blog posts that you've done and um like how did how does that you know start off in your mind before before you even get the code? Yeah, that's a great question. I've been trying to formalize it for a while, but I don't know. It's hard. So I guess the most recent project I worked on was a few days ago, I made a blog post about like, what is a percent unit mean in CSS? And it gets a little bit weird. like um and the way I come up with blog post ideas is when I'm working you know I just look for things that are a little bit confusing and I want to investigate um or you know something that comes up really often like this felt recipes thing so for percents it's something you'll use a lot especially with data visualization is like positioning elements you know sometimes you want to kind of negate its height and width so you like you want the middle centered on a certain point or like like a tool tip you know you want it to be positioned above something but like halfway like centered horizontally but above it vertically and this is something that has been bugging me for years is like it really unintuitive uh what like 100 even means in CSS so um I read your article and uh one thing that really stuck out to me was the was like the the the thing that I don't remember which one it was but it was some yeah something like depending on the parents' width instead of the height. Yeah, yeah. It's like really weird. So margin top and margin bottom, as well as padding top and padding bottom are a percent of the parents' width, which I don't know why. Yeah, that is right. Yeah, super weird and like not what you would expect if you were just like, oh, I want this to be like 20% moved down in this container. You wouldn't get what you would expect. And I think it's been used for an aspect ratio hack. Like if you have a video element, you want it to be 9 by 5, then you can use margins or padding. Sorry, what are you going to say, Sean? SEAN WONG- Oh, I was just going to say, it's probably like a recursiveness thing. The browser has to figure out what we want. And then I think it usually goes, tries to go horizontally. And then if the margin top is modifying the height, that might be like an infinite loop of just like, OK, the percentage is modified, and then the height is modified, and the percentage is modified again, and the height is modified again. Maybe that's what's going on. I don't know. Yeah. Yeah, you heard it Peter first. But that definitely could be it. I'm always very, I feel like an imposter when I talk about browser internals, because it's like, you know, there are algorithms that go behind these things. It's just that we don't know them. And people who work on browsers know them. Yeah. Maybe we should have someone working on browsers on here. That could be fun. You definitely should. I want to just blow my own trumpet here for a second and say that when I was 21 or something or something like that, I worked in a web agency, and this is before responsive design existed, right? That's how old I am. and I won an award because I made what I would say is a responsive website with basically no experience and it because I specified every single dimension on every single element in percentages so it was responsive in that if you on a phone it like a site like this It was just ridiculous And people had really used phones in those days, but it was like small screens and big screens and stuff. So I just want to say percentages are awesome. I totally agree with the use of them. I love the like old timer attitude too. It's like, like you kids, you have flex bags. You don't know the pain we went through. I was building sites for IE5 on Mac and who knows it's terrible that was a thing it was a thing and it was it was awful it was the worst browser ever it was worse than IE at the time IE was like golden you know yeah yeah all right so any more questions well you know I was just I was gonna say like I feel like sometimes you you also try to tell a story with you know the percent stuff you know you let you make it interactive so people can actually mentally learn you know what the relationship is but I think sometimes you also tell a story like something that I really I only got by reading your post was the SVG elements thing and you could have just done like well the the scaling the one with scaling I don't know if it's oh the the one with the telescope with the telescope exactly so you could have just done some toggles with a number range right and then you could have just scaled a generic SVG but instead you like made it into a thing with a star and then a telescope looking at the star and that really gives a mental model that like I still have from now on you know what I mean like and that that really is is is makes you kind of inhabit that character in a way which I thought that's pretty cool i appreciate your confidence in me i have to tell you that the secret is not enjoying writing words so if i sit down to write a blog post i'll like get a sentence in i'll say what else can i do here so i can write fewer words if that's the net effect then brilliant like i mean this is great i mean i that's i think i think that kind of tutorial as well is just super valuable. I mean, having a realistic scenario for all the things you're trying to teach someone is just way better than, I know that your dad, right, learned Fortran from a book, but the point is we now can make telescopes stars, you know? Yeah. What do you mean You don like function foo bar That not fun Not yeah not as much It definitely the lorem ipsum of the development world Yeah And there's loads of them. There's nine different words or something. There's quarks and quarks with two U's. I've never seen this. You have to look them up. There's just so many weird ones. There's an appropriate way to fake variable names. Yeah. Let's do picks. I can get it started. I have been feeling a bit of RSI in my hands. And also just like working from home, I don't have like a proper table. I have this like weird home table. So like, you know, we have to really start taking care of our bodies, especially if you want to do this for a long while. So one app that I was recommended and I've been enjoying is this app called Stretchly. I think it's, you can install it via brew. So you like brew install Stretchly and it just works. And what it does is it gives you micro breaks and breaks. So micro breaks that happen like every five minutes and then breaks happen every like 25 to 30 minutes. And micro breaks like 10 seconds, like just like stretch your fingers, stretch your arm, do a lunge, like, you know, just like improve your mobility a little bit. And then breaks are where you just get off the computer and just go walk, go for a short walk. And I think that's a much better way to like, I don't know, force me to do, force me to, you know, take breaks on the computer. So stretch me. And it gives you, it gives you like a Pomodoro as well, right? Because the time in between those breaks is when you're focusing. Right. Yeah. I don't, I don't necessarily believe in Pomodoros as much because like I tend to take a while to wrap up. Yeah. 25 minutes is a good, good block of time. Cool. Yeah. So I have a pick that it's also an app that I rediscovered recently called Focus, which is something I really need to do sometimes, but I always procrastinate instead. So this app, it pretty much lets you whitelist and block and blacklist like apps and websites that you're allowed to go to when it's active. So it works well for me. Nice. Yeah. Amelia, do you want to go next? I did not prepare, but off the top of my head, looking at my screen right now, I've been trying to

 out this new browser called Stack, which I've been really liking. It basically, it's not what you would use for your main browser, but I have like, I have like Twitter in there. I have like email, like anything I would visit throughout the day or want to keep an eye on. Like I have an RSS reader in there. It kind of just lays these windows side by side. And it took me a little bit of time to warm up to it but I've been really enjoying just having like you can have different stacks for like personal and for work and I always have this issue where like I have two Notion accounts right like one's personal one's for work and like they really don't have a good like account switcher so even just like having both of those up at the same time has been really nice so I definitely recommend it and they have a Linux version coming in a few days so I'm happy oh nice yeah good uh so this is get stack.app that's right I like it it looks like tweet deck for yeah yeah yeah exactly it does yeah for everything I need to try I need to try this um I mean you know I quite agree because like you know um I run multiple twitter accounts and the the pitching is gets a little gnarly so um and so yeah some some apps don't even have a so it's it's uh it's important that's cool it's really nice um so my pick at the moment should be because it's a hundred million degrees it's probably this fan i really want to get close i not gonna have a pick as a fan because fans are fans right um what i will say fancy fan that not like any fan no it a dyson It a Dyson one It pretty cool They quite good I got the filtering one as well Nice It works well But it's a fan. So what I will say is my pick is going to be the Chris Hemsworth, i.e. Hulk, Thor, where he reacts in Avengers. His workout app called Center, which is like the word center in English, but without the E on the end. Really confusing. and we'll just write it down I guess um but basically it's a workout app that gives you it's all his trainers who do the videos um and it's all high intensity stuff really so it's like you'll do half an hour exercise per day and it'll be like super intense and it'll absolutely drain you of any energy at all and I've been doing it since like May or something and I'm not really big on exercising but I realized I was sitting at my desk all day long not really getting any exercise at all at the occasional walk um and I really enjoyed the fact that you know i'm actually losing weight uh i'm getting loads of muscles i didn't even know i had i've got almost a six pack showing i mean it's it's really actually effective for half an hour a day right it's just really super effective and they have like courses you can go on to do specific things target specific areas that kind of thing um it's quite fun uh it's quite educational because you're doing the different exercises they've got like mma training on there they've got boxing they've got um functional training which is just amazingly hard the guy is a beast i don't know how he does it um but they got yoga and they got pilates and stuff on there as well and just i just think that like it's almost something i look forward to now every day which is really saying something for me in exercise i really enjoy that that half hour um and it just it i just feel great i walk around and i more upright um you know i i I get a clothes shop I try clothes on I don feel like oh no you know dread it kind of thing It's really amazing for just half an hour. So I'm going to say that's definitely my pick of the last few months. In fact, I like how the three of us, four of us were like apps. And then you're like, yeah, I'm getting a six pack. It is an app. It's also an app, right? it's a website it's a pwa right so it is an app it's a web app yeah sorry you do the recipes as well like the cooking i i do i do some of them and actually the food is really really good as well that's worth mentioning the food is actually fantastic too um you know it's quite hard to cook something healthy and make it taste really good but these these recipes are really fantastic um but yeah i think the thing that's amazed me is getting me to do exercise regularly is is that's i've tried it before a lot and this is the first time i've stuck with it for any period of time so that's a good review oh that's great pick um all right i think health related you notice yeah it's pretty cool well apart from me yeah All right. So, so, so that's it. I don't think we have anything else to talk about right now, but thank you for coming on Amelia. You're welcome back anytime. And yeah. Take care guys. Yeah. Thanks for having me. This is great. Okay. Thank you Bye Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.