 Hello, everyone. Welcome to another episode of Svelte Radio. Today we have yet another guest with us to talk about Svelte, but first, introductions. I'm Kevin. I run a site called Svelte School, and I'm heavily involved in the Svelte community in general. And I'm just a Svelte evangelist, I guess. I'm Anthony. I'm the CTA of Bianc, and I'm also a Svelte maintainer. I'm Sean. I work as a Senior Developer Advocate at AWS. This is probably my last time in that role. And I'll have a new role coming up next time we do this recording, where hopefully, I think, if I'm not mistaken, I'll be working on a production Svelte project. So more news to come. And our guest today is David Parker. He's a software developer, I guess. Maybe you can introduce yourself. Yeah, I'm David Parker. I normally go by Parker. And I am CTO at HobbyDB for my day job, where I do Angular, unfortunately. But I spend a lot of my free time doing Svelte. And I run a site called listenaddict.com, which I'll talk about a little bit later. And I'm making another project after that. So I'm just going to point out here that the title developer, with a guy who has two side projects, which are looking pretty decent, I'm going to say Entrepreneur. I think it's a good title. I would take that. All right. So before we get into the meat of the discussion, I'll read some sponsor spots. So the first sponsor spot is actually not a sponsor. It's just some news about that you can now support Svelte Radio directly. So you'll get access to video versions of the podcast, or you'll be able to listen to the episodes a couple of days early, even unedited sometimes. So head on over to svelteradio.com support, and you can read more about it there. Oh, and secondly, if you like the podcast, it would be awesome if you could leave a review on iTunes and subscribe. All right. And that's it for the sponsors. I always feel I don know It like it a great way to support independent radio I guess And this is kind of what we doing Yeah It easier than hunting real sponsors I suppose I guess after a while they'll just appear out of the woodwork, really. But it's nice. I think being able to pay for something that has value and then having that sort of inside info or the sneak peek is really, really valuable. So I think it's good. I like it. We'll see how it goes. Do you run a Patreon as well? No. So I've actually looked at a couple of different solutions for this, and Patreon was one of them. But there's a lot of not being in the U.S. and having to handle VAT is a real hassle. Patreon does it for you but the fees they take are ginormous so I found some other ways to solve this I think I'm currently going to use Paddle it's like they handle digital products and software pretty much I draw the line at OnlyFans I have a body for radio I have a comment to that, but I don't think it's appropriate for this audience, so I'll hold my tongue. All right, so let's get into it. So you said you were an Angular developer on your day job. So how did you end up doing Angular? so i'll just give you a super super fast short version of my history real quick um i was in the military in the united states uh from 2002 to 2006 as a java developer so i i basically sat in front of a computer and coded for the military it was very boring but that really got i didn't even know you could you could do that you know there's a lot of systems that you have to keep track of, like tracking people, personnel, training, all the things. But not very exciting. I don't like the corporate structure, but I got out, turned around and became a contractor, worked for them for three more years, making three times as much money because when you in you don make any money But that kind of as Anthony alluded to before kind of pushed me in that entrepreneurial direction doing the big corporate type thing So then I went back to school grad school because I had free money from the military and did entrepreneurship and computer science There I met a co or a co-founder of my previous company called Uvise. We were Rails and AngularJS. And at the time, This was a little bit before React, and all the jQuery is kind of just leaving popularity, even though it's still popular. Backbone was kind of plus or minus. I didn't really care for it at the time. So we chose to start our company with AngularJS, and that's kind of where I got to start in Angular. We never really upgraded that company to Angular 2.0 and thus forward what it's now and now is. and then moving on from there that company was sold and spent some other time doing react and played around with view a little bit played around with django and then i joined hobby db and they were already using angular so that's how i came to be my current role cool so so so what is hobby db is that it's like an e-commerce yeah it's a it's a e-commerce site where people can buy and sell anything that's collectible so the little pop funko dolls um if you're familiar with those i don't know how popular they are outside of the united states they seem to be kind of trendy and i'm i guess we are a marketplace for those is the the main thing and hot wheels the little cars those are our two main so this this is called hobby db that's that's that's an interesting name because I really thought it was like an alternative database system for development. Yeah, I thought it was like a, the name did not draw a picture of what the product is. It's interesting. Yeah, they were around for about three years before I joined the team, and then I took over as CTO there. The previous VP of engineering and CTO was taking off. I'm still in a fingers crossed, Will we ever have the time to upgrade off of their stack to Svelte or something different? But it seems like we're always chasing it. I guess it's often a push, isn't it? Yeah. Do you think people who work with you've got an appetite for something outside of Angular, or do you think they are pretty happy with Angular The dev team is definitely excited about other things It kind of hard not to get them hyped off They very into Next which is the React super popular one, which is fair. Most of our development team is in South America and just making sure that their skills are up to date and in the popular realm. That's fair enough. You can't blame us for that really, can you, I suppose. but I have turned them on to some Svelte things. So we're trying to get little internal tools here and there used too. It's funny how, yeah, all you need is like a little way in and then suddenly people kind of prefer writing this and then suddenly everything becomes Svelte and what you thought was right. That's happened in a couple of places I've worked at and it's quite a nice feeling. It doesn't always work. It doesn't always work at all. I mean, there was a place I worked at which was Redux and Sagas and React and I tried. I started writing login screens and stuff for things in Svelte, but it just didn't really catch on. Yeah, I mean, sometimes people are stuck in their ways. I think it's a particular challenge with CTOs because at some point your stack will be out of date and then there's always a question of when do you rewrite to keep developers happy? At the same time, rewriting just for the sake of rewriting has zero business value. How do you make that decision? So I haven't come across it yet. I think one of the roles of CTO is that you don't make a decision, right? You offer up alternatives, you advise, you provide benefits and widen the landscape, but you don't necessarily push your team in a direction. Because really, in the end, it's up to the team who are actually doing, especially as a CTO of a larger company, you are not developing yourself. you're kind of more providing a background for people who are developing in your team. Right. So you've found Svelte and you've fallen in love with it. You know, I really have. It's kind of funky because when I played with Vue and when I did a lot of React, a lot of React contract time between Uvise and HiBDB, I did that whole Redux Saga thing as well. We've done that rabbit hole. And I've played with hooks and newer things too. But Svelte, sometime...

 I think it was the last year, really early on. So pre-COVID days, I was watching Ridge talk about something, and I don't remember what. And I was just like, that looks really cool. And then when COVID started, I was stuck at home a lot more. So I was like, well, I want to make this product. And I really wanted to make it for myself. And you know what? I'm going to try to do, you know, Sapper with it and Svelte. And the nice thing is that I really, really like, probably more than anything almost, is the fact that you can literally go through the entire tutorial and all the documentation for Silt in four hours. You can go through the entire thing and you've done at least a little bit of everything. No, you don't know it all, but you've tried it all and you can see how it works. That to me was the biggest selling point because I went through the whole documentation and I was pretty sold because I didn't have to take a week to try to learn everything. Yeah, that's the same reason I'm here. That's the exact same reason. I'm very impatient. I get distracted easily, whatever you want to call it, ADHD, you name it. But basically, something needs to be quite terse and quick and learn it. And it's perfect. Svelte is just like that. And I guess it's a good answer for people who raise bug requests saying, why can't we add this API and this API and this API? It's because that length would grow, that length of time. So what did you first build in Svelte? So is Listenatic the first kind of thing that you... Yes, it is, actually. I kind of just went all the way down. So quick breakdown of what Listen Addict is, just for the listeners, is it's basically a place where you can go subscribe to a person kind of like you'd subscribe to a podcast. So if you really liked Kevin specifically and he was on other podcasts, you'd subscribe to him and you'd get notified every time he's on any different show or Anthony or Sean or whatever. um so that's versus just being subscribed to you know svelte radio by itself you you might subscribe to that too somewhere else but on my site you would subscribe to a specific person and yeah so i i wanted to do svelte and i figured might as well and this is a product for myself i built it for me you know if i really mvp'd it i would just build the back end and email myself when somebody new was on but i was i wanted to build something fun in the front end and it just It kind of grew and grew and grew and became a little bit more than my MVP should have been. I had a lot of fun. That usually how it goes I had a lot of fun with Svelte and I was getting into animations I not the best with animations and these kinds of things And it made it really easy to do really silly things that I kept on pushing my MVP back for. So kind of a double-edged sword there. Kind of want to get it out there. But then you get stuck in all these nice features. Exactly. But it's the best kind of product, right? You built it for yourself. that's just essential. That's absolutely how to do it. I don't think I could build something that is just strictly market-driven. I have to be able to build something for myself. The next product I'm building is also for myself. So is it just Svelte and Slapper all through, or are you using some other service underneath? The technical back-end is all Rails. It was just really easy for me to build an API for that. I'm a big fan of Flutter. I'm not sure if you guys are familiar with Flutter. Yeah, I've heard of it, yeah. So I've played a lot with that for mobile apps, and it brings a lot of joy, kind of like Svelte does for me for the web. So I wanted to build my backend, and what I am super familiar with is that I can build fast. So all the backend is on all rails. I would love to eventually learn Golang or something else and replace it, but it's not that important. And then the frontend is just all Svelte and Sapper and Tailwind. Are there any challenges integrating Svelte with Rails? I think you have to use something like a webpacker with Rails. I don't know Rails that well. I decided to make it separate applications entirely. So the Rails backend is purely an API. So you hit a web request and it returns some JSON and that's it. That way I could keep it completely separate for the Flutter app that I eventually plan on doing. And that's why I wanted them to be completely separate. But yes, you're correct in that if you were to do it from scratch in one application, so it's all Rails with Sapper, with Filt, or whatever, it would use Webpacker or something like that. I wonder if there's a roll-up. That's complicated. It's way more complicated. I love having it separate. It makes it so fast. APIs are the native foreign function interface of the web. It's interesting talking about Flutter, right? I've messed around a little bit with it. Flutter has a web equivalent. Why not build the whole thing in Flutter or build the whole thing in Svelte and Svelte Native? So I answer that two ways One when I was really getting into Flutter two years ago that when I was really getting into Flutter Flutter web was not ready And from what I read it still might be ready question mark In that certain things, you couldn't even copy and paste text and things like that because of the way Flutter works. So Flutter web was just not ready when I looked at it. So Flutter web, does that work the same way that Flutter works on mobile? It has its own canvas and renders stuff on it. At the time it did. I'm not sure now because I haven't looked since, to be honest, a couple years ago. And then same thing with Svelte Native. I honestly haven't even tried it yet. So I can't speak to that. So this is some news for an upcoming episode. I've talked to a guy who's made some Svelte Native applications. And he's going to come on in a couple of episodes to talk about it with us. So that's nice. That'll be nice. If you're interested in that. I'll definitely listen to that. Yeah. It is one of those things. I actually spend a lot of time kind of advocating for this sort of separation between front end and back end. So you have the choice of technologies when you're building different clients. So you're kind of living that right now. I definitely agree with that. And I hate the whole, you know, I have a hammer and everything is a nail. And I feel like I find that so much, especially in JavaScript land, people want to apply it to everything. And I'm not sure if you guys are familiar with Jeff Atwood, but he has Atwood's Law, which anything that's written in code will eventually be written in JavaScript or something along those lines. And he published that like 15 years ago or something like that. Sounds familiar. So I always think, you know, why not use the best tool for the job? And that's why I didn't use just Express with Sapper to build my API. It's why I didn't use Rails with Webpacker. I think that Rails as an API, I can get things done incredibly fast. Front end, just sticking it with Sapper and Svelte and Tailwind, I'm doing things way faster than I would trying to implement Rails with it. And when I played with Flutter a couple years ago, it was fast to implement things. And I can say that I won check out Svelte Native because I definitely excited about new technologies but I don want to do the hammer thing and make everything a nail Yeah fair enough Makes sense Okay so you also got this other thing that you you working on right i saw i saw a comment on hacker news so this is actually how i i found you i think you're you're doing something called use producer is that correct yeah use so producer.com of course is taken because that's quite expensive owned by somebody so i mean so you know i'm calling a producer this domain is use producer like i'm going to use this and it's going to be a product leaning towards youtubers but then also eventually podcasters and other content creators where it's a project management tool basically so you know kevin i'll probably reach out to you at some point after this you know a few months down the line when i have an mvp and i need more beta beta users but you're trying to create episodic content where you're doing the same thing over and over and over again and you know you have your job and Anthony has his job and everybody has their jobs right and so you can have a team incorporated and it's kind of automatic so you do your thing and then you know Sean gets notified that it's his turn to do his thing and he does it he could click complete and then automatically tweets for you and so then you don't have to go into Twitter and tweet because that's already finished as well and then you go back and you You click whatever on YouTube, and then it's basically a nice all-encompassing project management tool. I've found there's quite a few different tools based off the interviews I've done with mostly podcasters at this point and a few YouTubers. But on the YouTube side of it, especially, there's less team-coordinated things. It seems like a lot more podcasters are using more generic tools like Notion versus something that's specifically to podcasters. Yeah, that's what we're using now, Notion. Anthony made a template. My CEO is obsessed with Notion. So he's constantly showing what it's cool. He's basically using it like Excel. Everything's linked to everything else, which is kind of nice. So it does have benefits for that. Sounds scary. But I just get frustrated with the UI. Yeah, that is scary as well. But I get frustrated with the UI and it's definitely like, it's that tool. It's a hammer you talked about before. It's the hammer. It does everything. Everything looks like a nail. It's good, but it's also not good.

 And I kind of miss Trello. I yearn for my Trello days. Yeah, I've used Notion some, and I agree. It's a very, very, very powerful hammer, and it's fun, but then it can get bogged down, and it can get slow, and there's different issues with it, too. But I want to build a tool that's specific to the episodic content creators. That makes sense. Sean, how do you, because you have another podcast that you do with Randall Kennett, right? Yeah, and a personal podcast. I do three. So how do you organize your podcasts? With Randall, I have a Google Doc where we just put ideas of episodes. And it's important that it's short. So we try to plan the content, but then we don't try to plan it too much because then it becomes very scripted and artificial. So we just try to make sure that we log down our ideas and then organize the main points we want to hit. I think show notes is an important thing to get right, at least for me when I listen to podcasts. So having them prepped and then just make it like an easy copy-paste job at the end is pretty important to me. And that's about it. I do think that supporting creative workflows for episodic content is important. But I think my pain point is actually more around once I've done something once, I'll tweet it out once. but then really not that many people will see it the first time. I actually need to break it up into chunks and share it again and again and again to really spread it out over time and maximize the value of the time that I put in. So I've been looking at some tools to do that, to do audio and video clips. Oh, like shorter ones? Yeah, I even have TikTok snippets. Yeah, 30 seconds, even like 10 second snippets. I actually thought about that today. like doing Instagram short stories or whatever. I don't know if there are many. Yeah, I have a little repo of this that helps where I'm keeping notes on tools like Spext, Descript, AudioMass, and then Otter.ai, Headliner.app, Wave.co, Taptapes.com. These are all tools in this space that I'm exploring. I will definitely check out all those too. Yeah, I want to build things like that where the episode may be published, but the job isn done for it yet You still have to do follow work or you want to tweet out a week later two weeks later a month later three months later to be like hey check out this episode that I wrote And having that as much as possible automated. Obviously, sometimes if you want to do snippets that you need to edit in, that might not be so automated. But having the tweet ready or having the Reddit post or whatever I can automate in be as easy as possible. Would that be a sidekick job for you in Rails? Yeah. It would just be a keyed up job that would happen eventually. I like these automation tools as side project ideas because it's kind of like fire and forget and the value is not tied to your time invested in it. And so I am looking to get better at these things. I'm not using sidekick, but I'm using some other scheduling stuff. So what is sidekick? Sidekick is the Redis base queue system for Ruby. And since Rails is Ruby, it's just easy to throw Sidekick on there and say, hey, here's a job that's going to happen once a day or incorporate into a cron task and then it'll just run in a background worker somewhere. So I also run a YouTube channel, which is, this is to fulfill my own problem kind of thing. I've paused on it about two years ago, two and a half years ago, I think now, because I had a daughter who's taken up most of my time, but now she's getting at an age where she is largely self-sufficient for a lot of things anyway. So I'm getting back into... Yeah, she's too she can fend for herself, right? Yeah, totally. She's fine. So my intent with Use Producer is, you know, I'm revisiting my old workflows for my YouTube channel and trying to figure out what was my personal pain points. But now that the content creator economy is growing quickly, and has grown so much even since I've stepped away for a couple of years, trying to get not just my own feedback, but get feedback from other creators. Yeah, I think this is a pretty good idea. There's several that work in different niches that I'm trying to blend, and I think that's the thing. So I've played a lot around with the YouTube APIs, for example, and a lot of the stuff that I've enjoyed doing, this is not episode of content part of my app, but the other part is just analysis of your content. And I've done a lot of research against my competitors, so to speak, just using the YouTube ABI And I love checking out that kind of stuff So I looked at who does that already in the space and so there TubeBuddy and vidIQ are the big two but they just Chrome extensions like super big Chrome extensions that modify the YouTube channel the site itself and so they're not like separate applications for managing you know the content itself that they're they just allow you to automatically fill in you know tag list and other things for you i think i think yeah it's difficult it's difficult to build a tool which is generic enough that everyone can use it but also simple enough um you know flexibility is complexity and before you know where you are you end up with no shit right this is it all exactly it's all very cyclic and goes back to the same thing that if you make it too good you're going to end up with something that really doesn't suit anyone so i think i don't know i don't envy your task there in terms of in terms of merging all those weird niches yeah that's why i really want to focus mostly on youtubers to begin with and then make it well enough for the the episodic portion for podcasters podcasting I feel has a lot more competition in terms of products that already exist so I assume you're going to build this in Svelte and SvelteKit yeah I'm going to do SvelteKit I keep on waiting for it to get published so the landing page for producer is done in just sapper because it was just easy for me to export it as a single landing page with an email form pretty simple um i want to jump back to listen addict real quick because i didn't get to mention this before um so talking about mvp and like exciting different things and waiting uh this is really cheesy i don't know if you guys can have your computers up but if you check out uh listen addict on the desktop not on your phone i have tailwind i used i love tailwind and we could talk about that if you want or not um at the top i have dark mode and light mode and then if next to it i have my little palette builder so if you click that it should do a nice little animation which i just had so much fun with uh making that and so uh that was fun and that very satisfying it super satisfying and it was so easy to do in spelt and i showed my wife and she like so when is this MVP launching And I like well Svelte made me do this Sorry. Yeah, right. So you did theming in Tailwind. That's a little bit hard to do. No, it's super, super easy. And it's ridiculous. My CSS is ridiculously small. I know some people just hate Tailwind and we can go into that if you want but for me it was easy I think each of my files for my colors was 1.3 kilobytes and then my total for the rest of the CSS was like 3 something or 4 something and that's per color so 1.3 kilobytes per color and it gets me light mode and dark mode so it's pretty nice and the other thing is of course because you guys don't see this i have built myself a moderator dashboard and an admin dashboard for listen addict with the intent that eventually i can pay some mechanical turk people or something to help moderate new content on listen addict and i have all the keyboard shortcuts and all these other things built in because felt just made that so freaking easy i it was ridiculous i just So when I go and add new content on there, it takes me minutes because I'm just using keyword shortcuts and all these other things that I've made that were so fast to do. So are you adding the content manually then? Yeah. How does it work? Because not every podcast is interview-based and I want it to be hyper-focused on interviews. So I want to say that 90% of my content is interview-based podcasts. and every given podcast generally not 100% of the episodes are interviews there may be something else here or there so that's kind of the gist of it I am currently manually curating and trying to find new content it was up front and it is still to find the original source but once I find the podcast and it's RSS feed It's fairly simple. I have a very, very simple ng-tagging library that I use plus a little bit of heuristics and algorithms that I've written to extract out people's names automatically. So I don't have to go in and add people. It'll pick up.

 As long as they're in the title of the episode, I am at like a 95% hit rate and the other 5% is manual intervention. So that's what I would need moderators for. I think manual curation is a really good way to go. We do a lot of things manually as well. And at some point you figure out what works and what doesn't work because you've done it manually and you've been involved there. And then you can automate those tasks rather than trying to automate it up front and then do something that doesn't really work and then start tweaking code and wondering if there's bugs and stuff. Doing it manually is a very valid method, in fact, of MVP-style stuff. So yeah, definitely. It's a great idea. Get closer to your customers. That's definitely the approach I've taken because I basically built out a few tools for myself as a moderator, but now it's at a point where a lot of that can be passed on to other people to do it manually for cheap, if I can, or taking some of that and automating it slowly. the hard part of course as you said before with the entrepreneurship thing and multiple products is now 80% of my code time is going towards use producer listen addict is more just for fun for me and it's at a very stable position at this point I may or may not try to monetize it I don't think it's anything people will pay for but I can throw ads on it I guess it's not that important to me it's very cheap to run so I would much rather spend my time on using it on user producers so that way I can get that launched and actually try to make money and quit my job. So, so, um, I have a suggestion on how to monetize this. Uh, and this is something that, so I used to be, uh, an equity analyst in a hedge fund and my job would be to follow, uh, the CEO and CTOs and whatever of the public companies that I'm invested in. Um, but it's hard to keep track of the public interviews that they do and increasingly more and more of them are doing podcasts. Um, so basically I would have wanted to give you a list of stock tickers, um, to look up like their, their C-suite essentially. And if any of them do any podcasts, I want to know about it. Um, I want a transcript and, um, yeah, I want to email to me. So like if you want like a B2B version of that where people will pay for it, probably that's, that will be a path. Oh, interesting. I haven't not even thought of that. Everything I'm thinking is, you know, consumer-based stuff. So that's very interesting. B2B is where the money is. Everyone knows that right Yeah absolutely And actually I have a further hypothesis which is if you see someone if you see a CEO doing a podcast tour you know their company is doing well. So you should just buy the stock. Like Cloudflare right now, Michelle Zatlin is doing every podcast, so you know Cloudflare is just crushing it. They're releasing their quarter release in a couple of days, I think. It's obvious. If your company is doing poorly, you're not doing podcasts. Is that true now with so many podcasts though? I mean, obviously it's a little bit tongue-in-cheek and you should not take that as investment advice. But there's a bit of a theory. Like Jeff Lawson, CEO of Twilio, Oh, shit. Jeff Lawson, CEO of Twilio, launched a book and now he's doing a book tour. Twilio is obviously doing well. There's a slight correlation, I guess. I don't know. Anyway, the point is to make it easier for stock analysts to keep up to date on their companies. So right now you're focused on, you don't have a theme. There's celebrities, there's some people. I don't know what the theme of the people is, but if you could focus on the monetizable niche of speakers, then that might work. Okay, cool. To let you know the theme is basically software engineers, business people, entrepreneurs, and a little bit of celebrities, mostly for SEO juice. But those are the people I generally want to know who, entrepreneurs and software people are generally who I want to, I personally want to get notified of certain people when they have a new podcast. Like Adam Withan of Tailwind or Rich, you know, sell things. It's like, okay, I want to hear. But to get high on Google, I want to bump it up with some celebrities. Getting high on Google. This reminds me of like a... Sergi Brun's weekend. I listened to an episode of, what's the podcast called? It's like Tiny Seed Tales or something like that. and there was this guest who had made like a like happy birthday site for like a birthday birthday site for celebrities where people could look up celebrities and it was doing like massively well and scoring like top of all the time That crazy Yeah it surprised me It makes sense, though, if you think about it. This is why I'm always the tech partner in startups, right? I'm never the business partner because I don't want anything anyone else wants and I can't think of things that people want. I was the same way before. That's why I went to school. I ended up getting a double master's because I wanted to learn more on the entrepreneurship side as well as computer science because I can live in tech all day and never do any marketing and then no one uses my stuff. But I wanted to try to get on that other side a little bit more. Yeah, I mean, it's definitely a valuable skill. Absolutely a valuable skill. It is a lot of fun as well, I feel. So with Svelte, I'm going to ask you guys because you guys are a little bit more. I'm on the Discord channel. It's so hard for me to plug into communities. I think I'm mostly active on indie hackers and a little bit on hacker news. But I'm in 10 different Discord channels. I'm in 10 different Slack channels. How do you guys choose your niche? I just curious this is me interviewing you but just in terms of getting plugged in because I would I would love to eventually contribute to you know actually contribute to Svelte itself as a contributor you know on the development side or you know same with like Flutter or whatever those would probably be the two that I'd prefer to be able to contribute to if I could ever take the time to do that and give back to the community beyond just building products and be you know raising developer awareness about these technologies. how do you guys plug in or do you just you're all in on Svelte and that's easy just to focus there I think it's hard the Svelte Discord is probably the only Discord that I am all in on if that makes sense I'm in a couple of others as well like the CSS Discord and some cryptocurrency ones as well but it's hard think yeah i'm not too different like the svelte discord is where i spend probably 90 percent of my uh like eyesight i got a discord for my company as well and that gets 10 percent of my attention but obviously it a lot less active right there only seven in there and Svelte is 2 As to how I keep sort of aware of everything it kind of comes up when a startup gets to a certain size that you have to learn about other things because you really have to pick the optimal solution. It's gone from building a hobby project in Svelte only and only focusing on Svelte to now I build it in Svelte because it is the best solution for everything I need. But I do need to be aware of how React tackles problems, how Vue tackles problems, how all these different builders like Webpack and Roller have tackle problems. So it will be mostly Twitter. I would say that, you know, Twitter is my, in terms of social media, it's purely tech. I don't follow many people outside of tech and I don't really see many tweets outside of tech, which is quite nice. I really value Twitter for that alone. I get all the updates. I get, you know, crazy stuff from people who are so far from what I do every day, but still in the tech space. That's that's kind of why I like Twitter, I guess. But yeah, it is very difficult to keep it up for everything. And you really can't. I think you have to be a generalizing specialist, which kind of applies to many aspects of work and things. But just keep a focus, but always be able to be distracted. You know, have other things in your periphery, I suppose, that you can see. But you have to focus in order to become good at something, I think. And you have to kind of specialize in that thing. Yeah. It's hard, definitely. Like, I think for me, Twitter is also the way I learn about stuff. And maybe, I mean, Hacker News as well. It's a good one. I can't read that, and I probably should. Yeah, Hacker News is awesome. I love Hacker News. It gets about 80% of my attention, Hacker News does. Wow, okay. Yeah, it's really nice. So you either get a balanced opinion there or you get sort of what people call it really bad names, right? They call it trash and stuff. It's kind of like a split mindset on what Hacker News actually is or what it brings. Yeah. You'll have to be critical with everything, right? Yeah, yeah, I suppose you do. What about you, Sean? Because you learn from everything. I dabble probably too much. Actually, I run my own Discord for my book. So, you know, I spend a lot of time in there.

 curating oh yeah yeah um i spend a lot of time curating i guess information and and uh continuing updates for my community members um i'm a little bit in the svelte discord as well um i guess i i do a lot of my learning through podcasts so i listen to a lot of uh what's going on and try to keep tabs so i'm an ideal customer for for listen addict because i am a listening addict but i'm also trying to i guess you know i think there's there's there's no end to how much you can consume and you need to be more intentional about what you consume and the best stuff, um, you should try to consume repeatedly instead of, uh, you know, always looking for the new thing. Um, and I think to me, the, the Lindy effect is something I think a lot about, like things that have been around, things that have been relevant for a while will likely continue to be relevant. And your, the sum total of your knowledge is basically the amount of still relevant things that are, you know, in your head. So I've been building this thing I call Lindy Library, where it's basically things that are three years or older that are still relevant today, which I think will likely be more relevant tomorrow. And I think I like that versus a lot of the ephemeral content that is being produced today. I see. Can I interject and ask, what is your book about? Oh, it's about, it's career advice. For people going from junior developer to senior developer, I think that's a kind of underserved market. Um, so, um, not anymore based. Yeah, it's just one book. And, uh, I don't think I do a very good job of marketing it to be honest, but it's, it's doing fine. It's, it was like, basically my, my most popular essay is, is about this idea of learning in public. And so people really want more help on, on how to do that. Um, so I have like writing advice, like applying to CFPs. Um, I also have like tech strategy advice. So like, um, people, I think developers don't think enough about betting on technologies and the business models of the companies that they work with. So I just give some basic intuition about that in the book. We also study career ladders. Yeah, sorry. I don't mean to turn this into an ad, but it's a big book. That's very cool. I definitely had a very difficult time in that transition when I was going from junior to senior. Yeah, no one tells you this when you join the industry. It's weird. So you just supposed to know You pick it up Like hopefully you land in a good good company with good mentors but a lot of people don I feel sorry for them They're like, yeah, I don't have anyone else to talk about this with. I'm like, all right, I'll be your friend. That sucks. Do you guys have any other questions for Parker before we go to unpopular opinions? I I'm good I'm gonna I'm asking some more outside of the podcast actually when I think of them because it's interesting to me like I used to do a lot of this releasing small kind of projects um that I built myself I guess but yeah the whole lack of marketing meant that they were just literally for me and no one else and I think that I really like how how Listen Addict's looking I signed up earlier actually I meant to mention and I'm really happy with it because I've got my own name which is something I didn't get on Clubhouse and I'm gutted about absolutely gutted about I like to have my name on everything and uh yeah so listen addict I'm there Anthony you can follow me you can uh you can't follow other people yet which soon you add it I need it I need followers the nice thing is because I don't do a ton of marketing it should be easy for everyone to get their own names right now uh yeah well I mean you know that's how I got on Twitter right so it can work you know you could be the next twitter who knows all right but yeah so so i just yeah that's that's it i'm done i think happy let's go to unpopular yeah and and you're the only one who has one this week i think i know shocking shocking come on people we can we can do better you try harder let's hear it so my my my unpopular opinion is that i don't like the await thing in Svelte. Like the template tag? Oh, the template text for await? Yeah. I don't like it. It should be removed. It should be deleted from the code base. Like comments. I only use it once in all of my code, to be honest. I end up just doing most things in the script section. I think you're doing the right thing. You're on the right path. The reason I dislike it so much because I've always believed that we follow this pattern where we try to separate view logic from logic logic. View logic should just be rendering something in logic logic They can sit within the view layer traditionally right spelt is three things in one styling in html and code but you should prepare the data and then iterate over it at max because i can't see a way you can really avoid iterating over it but the await tag is is different like it really bucks that trend you know spelt is a very simplistic language it has very simplistic view um directives like this it has very simplistic view things and the await tag is like an outlier for me it's it's it's doing too much it's doing it in the wrong place and you can await things happily in your code and then get the code ready and or get a message ready or whatever putting it in a template just feels wrong just just really feels wrong so yeah i just i don't want it there yeah it's it's so it's it's you prefer to to handle like your data fetching outside of of the template tag i suppose i'm actually gonna in the ideal the world i'd build something and show it right and the closer i can get to that the better right yeah i'm actually like speaking of of like separating data data handling stuff um i'm gonna record like a like a learn with jason type thing but learn with kevin next week with luke Luke about using custom stores, or rather just derived stores to do data handling. So that's going to be interesting. Yeah, yeah, absolutely. I guess that's one way to solve that. So when Anthony told me about this await thing, I was actually very surprised. I was like, wait, this is in Svelte. That must mean that it's blessed. And then I realized he was right. So actually the whole impetus of the data fetching talk that I did on the Svelte Society day, the first conference that we ever did for Svelte Society was explaining why and why not to use Await or the alternatives to Await, including building a custom store. So I can refer people to that video. It's on the Svelte Society YouTube for that. I'd completely forgotten about that. But now that you mention it, that was really nice. That one comment from Anthony actually motivated the whole talk. And then I was just like, okay, let's just see where this goes. And it turns out there's a lot of different ways to do data fetching, depending on what you want to do. So yeah, it's a fascinating topic and maybe we should take out a wait. I don't know. Or put a caveat in the docs I look forward to your talk on removing comments from your codefax No that just wrong That just mistaken I ready for it I have an unpopular opinion to share that's not mine. If you all want to do a comment on it. So Devin Govett, I thought this was fire because he says, unpopular opinion, ES modules was a bad idea. It has caused half a decade of churn in the JS ecosystem, broken almost every tool, caused maintenance nightmares for library authors. And for what? A different syntax? CommonJS was fine. That was his unpopular opinion. And keep in mind, he's the author of Parcel. So he knows, he writes a bundler. He knows about static analysis. And so he's arguing that the typical response... So, okay. Me, as someone relatively new to JavaScript, I was just told that ES modules were better. And I just like, just take it on faith. Like, this is a big thing that has been in the works. And like once, everything will be better once we migrate to ES modules. And then here's this guy that there's like, yeah, no, we could do a lot of the exact same things that we want to do with ES modules with CommonJS. And now we have just years of just like, oh, you have to do double transpiling, and then your import systems are broken. And everything is just kind of in a weird flux state that we maybe didn't need. So I thought it was a very interesting, unpopular opinion, and I'll just send people there, because there's a lot of discussion about this. Yeah, I don't know enough about these subjects to really have an opinion. It just feels right to do the import syntax. Yeah, I have to agree. I don't know enough about ESM or anything else. We'll come on JS really, but I understand that EJS is better for tree shaking, which is definitely a benefit. I just don't know whether that's because somebody made EJS and then made it tree shakable, or whether there's a fundamental problem with CommonJS that you can't tree shake it. I just don't know which it is. I mean, so that's why it's relevant to me that it comes from someone who makes a bundler because he's basically saying he can do the exact same tree shaking with CommonJS, so we didn't need it. Yeah, I mean, maybe. I don't think Parcel prides itself on tree shaking specifically, though. Parcel prides itself on ease of use, no setup, just run it and you bundle kind of thing. And so I think that I would probably, probably, you know, and I obviously have massive bias, but I would, I would go with the kind of Rich Harris opinion of ESM everyone.

 and nothing else. And again, I don't know if that's a fundamental thing in terms of how the two things work or whether it's just, you know, I don't know. But I would say that probably I'm on the Rich Harris side of the argument for now, just because I think that the roll-up is focused on the smallest possible bundle size, and that's very much more appealing to me. Parker, what do you think we should do? I can't speak to it. Sorry. I'll listen to the talk or read anything about this because it sounds interesting. But to be honest, I'm used to in Ruby land, you have Ruby gems. You have one way. Python, everybody has their one way. So it's interesting. JavaScript is so many ways. So I can speak to it. This is the Python 2 to 3 conversion of JavaScript. It's just taken way too long. So 10 years later, 15 years later, we'll be there? Is that what you're saying? I mean, yeah, it probably is. Yeah, pretty much. I mean, I remember when NPM came out. What was that? 2009. I have the original email. I found the original email in the Google group. 2009, so that's only, what, 12 years ago? So great. Now we have 15 more years of catch up. I have a separate unpopular opinion I'll throw out. It's that generally speaking, you don't need the style tag within your Svelte files. 99% of my components do not. And that's specifically because I am using Tailwind. I will throw this out there for people who are Tailwind haters real quick. I know CSS better now than I've ever known it. Everyone seems to say it's the thing for people who don't know CSS. It's actually the exact opposite. it. Every single class corresponds to one CSS thing. Whereas, you know, when I was using bootstrap, I'd write an, you know, button, but I never had to inspect to see why it looked nice. Now I know everything looks nice because I took the time to add that class. And so basically none of my components have a style tag. The only one that really does is the audio player that I have, because it's a custom audio player. Interesting. Yeah. I think, I think actually, um, the tailwind thing. Somebody else who I have a lot of respect for actually Very very good coder who I thought would be totally a gamesman Tailwind really speaks highly of it So what can I say I don think it for everything It's not for every project. It'll be very hard-pressed to pull me away from it. I mean, I'm using it for the new Svelte Radio website that I'm currently having issues with because I can't figure out SvelteKit because it's not released yet. My fault, I know. We make it intentionally difficult so that people don't use it. That's why your producer is Sapper still. Yeah. I mean, all my stuff is Sapper still. I should probably convert it to Sapper for now. Yeah. Just hold off for a bit. And Sapper isn't dead, by the way. Whoever thinks Sapper is dead, they're still pushing things to GitHub. You can see it. Yeah, absolutely. I'm not worried about that. Last night, in fact. We had Ben on last episode, right? where we talked about Sapper and how it's specifically not dead. So, yeah. Like, we only really wrote off Svelte 2 about a couple of weeks ago, to be honest. We're at the point now, just people need to upgrade, and we've been supporting it long enough. But, yeah, there's got some good longevity in Svelte stuff, in Svelte land. So we've got time for our picks. Yes, yes, we do, we do. All right. So what's this random pick you have for us this week, Anthony? Is it ever not a random pick? So my random pick is a can opener. Now, for those who can see the podcast, which is not the audience, sadly, it's a tiny little can opener. It's called a Nogent Super Kim. It's actually from France. And, you know, can openers, there's all sorts of levels of crap for can openers. They're all rubbish. um you occasionally find a good one and my my favorite one to this point was a basic cheapy supermarket you know uh basic can opener i found this on amazon this this notion super kim it's expensive for a can opener but this thing opens a can perfectly so you stick it on the side you start to turn and it pulls itself into the rim it then cuts the rim but as it does it sort of what i can't remember the word is but it makes little dents in it so it's not sharp so when you pull that can lid out it not sharp it not going to cut you you go around the can it doesn slip it doesn ever get hard to cut it very smooth action When you finished you just turn it the other way just half a turn and it will remove itself from the can and become, you know, in your hand. It's like magic. Sounds like magic, yeah. Because this thing is tiny. It is like magic, this thing is tiny. This thing is probably like, I don't know, three centimeters, like an inch and a bit square. You know, even cued because of the handle and stuff. It's just great. You're opening a lot of cans because you have cats. You said you have cats. That's why you have a cat. Well, it's because... No, we feed them pouch food, actually. But no, we really like tuna, so we have a lot of tinned tuna. And it's just every time it pains me opening cans, we had this very pretty, very posh can opener, and it was just rubbish. And it got blunter and blunter. And it would lose the grip, and then you'd put it back on. And once you've lost the grip in a can opener, and you try and go with the same bit, it won't grip and it won't cut the notch. and then you've got a knife you're trying to stab the top off. So yeah, Canopran is way more important than I thought it would be. But I love this one. This is brilliant. So yeah, I'm happy with this. We'll put it in the show notes. Stick it in the show notes. Sean, do you have a pick today? Can you come back to me? I need to think of one. Yeah, sure. So my pick this week is the Bitcoin Lightning Network. So I've been super interested in playing around with Bitcoin. And the Bitcoin Lightning Network makes all these problems with the amount of transactions per second go away. So it's not really an issue anymore, which is cool. It just feels awesome to send money across the world in seconds without anyone telling you you can or can't do it. It's a cool feeling. This is the only way that Bitcoin becomes a reasonable currency is the Lightning Network. Oh, definitely. Kevin, I don't want to change the subject completely. I'm not a shell, but are you familiar with Nano? I've heard about it. Okay. It to me seems infinitely better than anything Bitcoin can or will put out just because of no tech debt basically and how it was created to begin with. In terms of being a currency versus a store of value, which I feel like Bitcoin is. Yeah I think it just like the network effect of Bitcoin that makes it the thing that going to win if that makes sense I don know I don think it going to win I don't think anything's going to win. I think Bitcoin is the react of cryptocurrency, right? There's an opinion for you. All right. Let's have this cryptocurrency discussion another time. No, but I'm actually pretty proud that we actually talk about it instead of completely ignoring that it's a thing. We talked about Bitcoin in May of last year, and it clearly became a big topic. Oh, okay. So my pick is 3jsjourney.xyz. So it's by Bruno Simon, who has his personal site went pretty viral last year because it basically shows you the amazing things he can do with 3js. and now he's released a course that's only I think it's like $79 and he's just teaching you everything he knows and it's really well designed. If you ever wanted to learn if you ever get tired of rendering boxes on the screen this is you want to go 3D I think this is a great way to do it. I have a pick. I have a pick but I have one quick comment to that. I haven't seen that 3GS thing. I will check that out. I'm going to do a plug before I do pick. On my YouTube channel, I have, I think, over 100 WebGL videos, tutorials. So if you want to learn what 3.js is doing underneath, well, not actually rip apart 3.js, but in general, how does WebGL work? I have a lot of tutorials on how to do interesting 3D things. If you are going to build something for real, I highly recommend 3.js rather than going full metal because it is a lot of work in overhead. otherwise there's a reason 3JS exists. Anyway, my pick, somewhat thematically with Antoni's, was actually in the kitchen as well. I'm not going to go grab it. It's just we have an espresso machine, and since COVID has started, it is a saving grace. So just a few hundred bucks. It's not a $2,000 or $3,000 crazy Italian one or something, but just having a nice espresso machine at home makes life so much better. Yeah, fair enough. Espresso is nice. All right. And I think that's it. Thank you for joining us today and talking about ListenAddict and all the other stuff we talked about. He's a producer. Yeah. Thanks for joining.

 to all the listeners. We'll talk to you guys in a couple of weeks again. Thank you for having me. This is great. You guys are fun. See you soon. Thank you. Bye, everyone. Take care.