 Here's a quick word from our sponsor. Vercel is the platform for front-end developers, providing the speed and reliability innovators need to create at the moment of inspiration. Founded by the creators of Next.js, Vercel has zero configuration support for 35-plus front-end frameworks, including SvelteKit. We enable the world's largest brands, like Under Armour, eBay, and Nintendo, to iterate faster and create quality software. Try out Vercel today to experience the easiest way to use Svelte. Welcome to Svelte Radio. Hello. Welcome to the Svelte podcast. I wanted to do that in the form of, what's that guy called, a comedian from the UK. He's very, very grandiose about stuff. I can't remember that name of him. I'll dig that one up. I thought you were just doing the Kevin. Kevin is just like, he's like, welcome back. Well, yeah, because you can do that too, right? You can just, you can do lots of things with it, but the thing, the important bit is to go, but first, a word from our sponsors. Yes. And I guess the sponsors would now talk, so we can chop this bit out. Yeah, well, Well, I mean, we have done the introduction now and it's just me and Antony today. So you're going to get a lot of banter back and forth. But it's just the two of us. I know. We can make it if we try. Hey, we should tell people about what we've been up to. Yeah, absolutely. I've been sick. Oh, dear. That's disappointing. Yeah, I know. So last week I had a very productive beginning of the week. And then Wednesday, I had this important meeting that I had to get something done for. And I woke up with a stomach bug. So I like pushed to get the stuff done for the meeting. I got into the meeting. I had the meeting, did what I wanted to do. And then I like allowed myself to get sick. I was like, now I'm done. I'm going to bed. And I slept for like two days straight and then was better by Friday. But people laugh at me because I say allowed myself to get sick. But that's how I feel like it is as a parent. like you can always just be sick you have to do other things yeah exactly exactly i have the same thing now obviously being a new parent and it it hard because we been ill for the last four weeks both of us I still not quite over it My throat is still full of like you know pain and horrible things And the cat is trying to eat my leg Go away I don know what from where the cat gone crazy Yeah so I very much the same in that respect I think it not a good season no and my children have had like different illnesses at different times and it's been just a mess my son is sick again too with something else as long as we don't pass it through the house that's a win and mine did not go to anybody else so i'm hoping that we can keep people secluded yeah i definitely got mine from from the baby oh yeah and the baby's ill again now the baby got ill and then she was fine and then she's well fine-ish and now she's ill again so not getting a lot of sleep which is great fun i'm exactly my lap come on then now what yeah when the babies are sick like they don't sleep well and they're faulty and it's just oh it's so bad for everyone but is it daycare like just daycare cold it's daycare yeah it's it's it happened at the dawn of daycare for us and and it's been ongoing i've heard reports of four months of illness so that's always fun yeah um so being being up to things what have i been up to what have i been up to apart from being ill um i i went to a pub that's local for for some drinks and some food and we sat at this big table they've got um and it's made of like the whole table's made of copper like the whole like copper top um obviously it's not solid it's got wood but it's wrapped in this copper and it's just a smooth smooth shiny copper but also because of all the use it's had it's kind of got this kind of black patina and then it's got like rings where cups have been and stuff and i'm guessing some of it's intentional but some of it's not and i just sat there thinking for the whole time how great is this table and so i went home thinking i want this as a dining table because we're in the market for a new dining table anyway and i looked it up and that table's worth about five or six grand and i can't i can't afford five or six grand on a table so i started looking on ebay you know secondhand i started looking at copper sheeting make your own kind of thing no i already have too many projects on the game um and all the second hand ones that weren't even as pretty were 800 1,500 you know i was like this is this is crazy but i found this perfectly sized copper topped um coffee table bench thing for 50 quid with no bids i like well i have that because the copper on it alone is worth about i don know 500 quid so i put a i put a watch on it i put a bid in thinking maybe someone might bid me no one did uh i got them to deliver it down here and it's amazing like the copper on it's beautiful it's wonderful and it cost me 50 quid that's amazing yeah some i bought some legs for it and some sticking legs on it today and and then i have a coffee table well not a coffee table have a dining table that used to be a big coffee table okay so it's just like a meant for a smaller space it's what it is it's kind of like it's not a coffee table because it's probably too big it's apparently it's like 70 years old or 80 years old or something so it's really really old so it's a very large like desk size coffee table and we've got a small kind of all-in-one room downstairs with the kitchen and the living room and the diner and so we were looking for a small coffee table a small dining table so it's perfect for that so it's kind of worked out really well i think i know what you mean like one of the ones that goes in the center of the living room yeah rectangular yeah kind of yeah i mean it will go with our little nook that i built so it'll be quite quite neat and tidy in the corner to eat to eat meals off um i'll set up some photos when i've got when i've got it built um exciting yeah a bit of bit of bit of Just like upcycling a bit of DIY. I'm excited to see it. DIY. There's something different. Yeah. Well, the whole Nook is built by me over the last year or so. So there's lots to see. Before I got sick, the thing that I finished was actually a PMPM workspace for monorepo set up for our packages at work. So I have all of that now working with Storybook and SvelteKit. I have that. That's for our component library. I have the style library. And then I have an icon library. You got change sets? I don't have that working yet, but that's one of my next tasks. It's a bit tricky, so let me know if you need some help, but it's cool. It's so good. The flow is awesome. Amazing. Yeah, I was playing with, technology-wise, Terraform the last couple of days because I've realized that all of my cloud infrastructure is just me clicking around in Google Cloud and hoping for the best. So I've now Terraformed a bunch of it, and I love it. I think it's a great tool. I don't really know much about that. What is Terraform? infrastructure as code so rather than trying to navigate their horrible ui or trying to do things manually via the console or you know sticking this things in a script or whatever you just write some terraform scripts which are they like it like a dsl um and then you just run it and it looks at what there looks at what you done stores a state And so it can kind of incrementally up and down the services so you can build your environment bit by bit. You can then use that same script on a different project, thus replicating for a QA environment or a staging environment. It's really cool. It's really good. And it's not that difficult. Yeah, that sounds really good. It sounds kind of like how you can make a schema and sometimes databases will like auto-generate your tables and stuff for you. It kind of sounds similar to that. Yeah, it's literally like building software, but you're building infrastructure. You know, you're building machines and setting permissions, and it's a lot easier to learn that than it is to click around the Google Cloud UI, which is indecipherable most of the time. I've heard that in AWS too, console. Well, yeah, yeah. And Terraform will run across all of these projects, right? so you can have your infrastructure on multiple clouds, which is nice. Cool. And then, yeah, the last thing, I found a Yamaha keyboard in its box on the street outside my house. I was like, I'm having that. What? Didn't expect it to work, and it didn't, but I opened it up, and there's one capacitor which is worth 64 pence to replace, and I think it'll work after that, so I'm going to grab that today. I see that in the background over there. You see the box in the background, yeah. That is exciting. I play piano, so I love anything to do with like keyboards and pianos. I don't, but I can hack around it as if I know what I'm doing, like I can with Terraform. That's awesome. Yeah. Got some cheap and free, like cool things to play with. Always recycling, salvaging. It's always good. I like it. Absolutely. Well, should we get to our discussion topics? Let's. We have lots of things to talk about today. I feel like it's been a minute since we've done one of these. So we have several things on the docket. Indeed. Okay, so where should we start? Let's start at the top. Let's start at the top. I was going to let you go. Yeah, yeah. So the first thing is discussion. These are things I've seen being discussed and sort of conclusions have been drawn. And so it's pretty cool that they're there. So I thought it was worth mentioning them. The first one is the ever, ever going I-18N. And if you've seen that thread on GitHub, it's been suggested that we even get OpenGPT to summarize that thread because it's got so long. It's no longer acceptable to humans. I love that. And it's complex because it's a.

 it's a tough problem to solve. However, the next steps here is that, and I'm not going to say anything concrete here because I don't know what the setup is yet, but essentially there is interest in building some sort of framework or library agnostic I-18N solution. Internationalization, by the way, I should probably say the full name for those who don't know the acronym I-18N. you replace um all of the all of the middle letters with the number of characters there are to make it acceptable to to people to read so i18n same with accessibility a11y um but yeah so so this is this is great because what this means is that um this this doesn't sit on our plate where we're kind of kind of you know we're not sure what to do about it um it's somebody who's got interest in this particular area and it will be something that can be used across multiple different uh you know we're not just restricted to stealth or stealth here so that's pretty exciting um and more details as they uh become sort of synthesized or concretized i don't know what you'd say c15d yeah i was just looking for the one and it's the i18n brainstorming is that rich has this long okay well i put that in the show notes for us yeah this is all interesting i've never dove into internationalization so it's a tough one because there's many approaches there's many solutions not everything works everybody and without knowing everybody's individual scenarios it's hard to say it for one and go that's what we're going to do that's we're going to build and that's that's what it'll be so to have somebody who's got a passion about this, interested in building something as a collaborative project is great. Yeah, that's awesome. So next one is dynamic base path. So this is what I've got a personal vested interest in. And I know that people who use IPFS are also interested in this because you don't know what your base path is going to be until your application is running and deployed. um for me i want to build um i want to say like it's i would say white label but i don't know how controversial that is nowadays um it's it's essentially a site that you can brand however you want that built in a generic way so um i don know a good example but for instance we have uh partners who use our marketplace and they want it with their header their footer their color theme um you know that that what i talking about here and the reason that you need dynamic base path for that is because some people want it on their own domain some people want it on like a sub path so slash blah slash blah slash blah and with sapper where we originally wrote this we could do the multiple domain thing but we can't do the multiple path I think because it doesn't know where to look the assets because it doesn't know where when it, because it's the same application that's running all the time. Instances running on a different sub path, get the wrong base path for their delivery of, of the assets. So the site breaks. So pretty exciting that that's now getting some more traction. There's been some commits recently from Ben, I think. Okay. It looks like there's a closed PR too. Yeah. So I think this tranche of it, and I haven't tried it, so I don't know whether it fulfills all of my needs, for example, but this tranche of it certainly is now sorted and closed. So I think Ben closed it. So the issue is still open. Here's the issue. It looks like Richard Ben did it. I don't know if there's other contributors. Sorry if I didn't mention anybody. But yeah. Oh, here we go. Yes, Wigawag. Wigawag for the PR. Awesome. Cool. Yeah, so that's really exciting. oh that's not the right issue i was trying to see if there was still an open issue on it but there might this might be the one yeah 17 hours ago this is what i'm talking about this is the one okay awesome yeah where it's been so it is officially like released now yes yes this this bit is is officially released so there should be a good level of stuff working now which is pretty exciting um and it's raised the point there's another thing i wanted to mention actually that i it's escaped my mind again oh yeah the other thing is um people are seeing that a lot of um issues merge requests pull requests wouldn't recall them are being closed uh like en masse on svelte merged or kind of outright rejected and the reason for this is not because we've suddenly all become more active and like woohoo what it is is we want to move svelte into a more modern setup i.e a pmpm monorepo with change sets because the release process for change set right now is relied on a single person conduitry who uh is kind of the final push it out to um to npm person which is obviously wonderful because he extremely conscientious but not very scalable So we looking to hopefully modernize that So it looks a bit more like the SvelteKit repository. Awesome. Yeah. You never want to have like one person being in charge of everything and knowing like how each of these pieces works. I'm trying to be very transparent and setting up my stuff too and be like, document everything and how it works. So somebody else could just take it over if they needed to. Yeah, key person syndrome is definitely something worth avoiding in all scenarios, especially when you own a company. Yeah. So that's Svelte itself that we're looking to move over. And is that in one of the Svelte 4.0 milestones? Should we move that up and talk about that? Yeah, it's kind of prior to Svelte 4 because the whole thing is unfortunately can't be paralyzed. you have to basically take the repository, modernize it, get the release process in place, get all the versioning process in place. Then you can start to think about releasing next version, which, you know, as I understand it, the next version of Svelte will basically be pulling out all the legacy stuff that we no longer need because the world has moved on finally, which will give us massive speed improvements, size improvements, things like that. Awesome. yeah so we now have the like spelt 4.0 official milestones in there there's a pretty long list and like you said you have to get the mono repo and everything set up to push it out before you can work on these but yeah exactly precursory support holy cow but exactly what you know what what a boost because yeah supporting all those old node versions and stuff is is an ever-growing amount of work for very diminishing return yeah well there's a lot of things in there if if you notice anything that you want to call out specifically but otherwise we can just leave it in the show notes and people can check it out yeah i mean there's there's there's nothing specifically in there that i'm i'm excited by i've always i've always maintained that spelt for me is is like you know pretty damn good as it is but yeah britney you appear to have something oh allow the each block to handle arbitrary non-array like oh yeah oh yeah that's nice fancy that's not and again it like i not excited by it because i can do it with dot entries right but yes it is cool that we will yes like so like an object would work uh well anything is terrible right so yeah this it almost like a no no uh no effort game to say oh my if something's terrible we should be able to iterate it kind of by default that sounds fantastic yeah the weird one about this was the discussion that was had was around we we currently allow iterating kind of anything you want as long as it has a length property the discussion we had was do we now break that and say you can't just iterate an object that just has a length property because it's not actually iterable it's just the way we detected the you know whether it was an array or not or an iterable or not um so do do we regress that and i i really like personally hope we don't because my entire stack overflow kudos and points are from one question which i answered with you can iterate by specifying a length property on an empty object so um no i i'm kidding of course like that is why i've got my second of my points because i don't use it but um i think it feels right to go well actually that's a bit of a hack and we should drop it okay still interesting and lots of cool things going on in here so indeed check it out yeah there's there's plenty of cool stuff it's not to say it's not cool it's just there's nothing here where i've got no i really need that been waiting for it forever like yeah just haven't i think it's just it's been most of us in the spelt ecosystem i think maybe not you you've probably been around longer but spelt 3 has been like what we all know and so thinking about spelt 4 and the future seems kind of like it's time actually you know what it's funny because i've just said that uh and actually the first issue on that on that roadmap is one that i was the second commenter on um because it really did bother me i mean it it doesn't because you can just append slash pipe local but i've always felt that transitions should not block rendering if if you know despite having local or not but it's essentially it's essentially like it's it's a bug that i worked around a long time ago not a bug it's a it's a feature i guess really that worked around a long time ago, whereby if you don't depend pipe local to a transition and you've got nested transitions, they will, all those transitions have to play out before the page changes. And at least for a point in SAP, that would break the navigation entirely. So good to have this. Definitely.

 Not exciting, but certainly a nice fix. Speaking of page transitions, I've seen Jeff Rich doing a lot of like the actual native page transition API stuff. I think it's still in Canary, but with Svelte, which is really cool to see too. Yeah, absolutely. I think Jeff Rich has done a lot of tutorials as well online and building things in public, which is pretty cool. We should probably mention those, but I haven't got the link to them right now. Okay, I will look at the link. Let's link Jeff Rich's Twitter. Okay, sounds good. And you go ahead and say your next one, because I know we have a lot of job openings right now. Oh, yeah. So Bianc is hiring. You can always check on jobs.bianc.com. I haven't put the tech job up there, but I am yet. But I am looking for a new engineer for our tech team. A little bit about it. It'll be a full stack job. I'm not too concerned about location. I am somewhat concerned about time zones because collaboration is really good. I'm looking for somebody that's relatively experienced, not just with Svelte, but with Node as well. And yeah, we have a good company with a great culture. We have a small tech team right now, so it's a place where you can make your mark. We're not tied into any specific technologies, with the exception of Svelte. I don't know what it would take to convince me to move away from that. I don't think it exists. But we're not tied to anything else. We've recently started looking at Fastify, for example, for the back end. We previously used HappyJS. Both great frameworks, but good to have knowledge of both and compare and contrast and not be so fixed on something that you just ignore everything else going by. Have you migrated to SvelteKit? Yes, we have two applications that still are in SEPA, but one of them has been almost removed entirely. There is just the marketplace page that's left um the auth is now a svelte kit app using auth js which is very cool um so there's very very small sapper app and our dashboard is still mostly in sapper but we have a kind of hybrid app so it kind of transparently flicks between our new svelte kit dashboard and our original sapper dashboard as you navigate um because we're migrating kind of page by page because it's quite a big application there's quite a lot of work to migrate the whole thing wholesale What does Fastify or some of those other back-end things offer you that you couldn't get in SvelteKit? I always believed that SvelteKit is kind of primarily a front framework that can support back And I do think that dedicated back frameworks are better for back than a back framework built into a front-end framework. What I mean by that is the amount of support for quite esoteric connections, things like, for example, if I think about OAuth connectors and things like that, there's whole libraries such as Bell for HappyJS, there's equivalents of Fastify, that allow plugin providers. Whereas in SvelteKit right now, you'd have to build your own and start from scratch. I also think that the goal of SvelteKit's API is to keep it kind of light, just a very, very small layer of things around the event object to make it compatible with everything. Whereas something like Fastify, it gives you that ability to define things in a way that you can slot in validation very easily with just a single line of code, a bit of configuration. It's got kind of scoped permission structure so you can do different types of auth on different parts of your backend application. It's got all that kind of backend-y stuff that's really valuable that we'd never build natively into SvelteKit because it just doesn't seem the right thing to do. It's just that kind of extra layer on top, but not so much that it's something like, I'm trying to think, like Express.js I don't use because it's too raw. It's too light. It's actually just using, it's like using SvelteKit. you know it's just it's just basically help us around stuff and it's got a bunch of plugins but they all seem to be very fragmented and all over the place i never really liked it um happy and fastified plugins are very strict about their structure and their hooks and they're very neat and tidy and the other side of this is something like i'm picking one out of the air because i don't use them much but let's say aurora js i think it is um is that the right name but something that tries to do everything it's got a built-in orm i don't use rms i don't want that. I don't want to have to exclude it from config. I want to just have just enough that gives me an easy way to build APIs and not too little and not too much. Aurora.js is a JavaScript audio decoding framework. It's not that one then. What is it called? Oh wait, Aurora.js, there is a simple framework for Node.js too. So on NPM, it's a simple framework for Node and on GitHub, it's a JavaScript audio decoding. So it's two separate things. I will link well. I could use sales right And I don want to pick on sales particularly because I think the sales is very good for what it does But sales for me is a prime example of doing too much The name gives it away It named after Rails Rails is a prime example of something that does too much It tries to build in a data access layer that you can use. I just don't like that. I don't want that, right? That's what we use at work. So we're using Svelte with Routify for the front end and then Rails. And sales and back end. Oh, and Rails. Rails, yeah. And there's nothing wrong with Rails specifically or sales or anything like that. it's just, it's not for me. It's not how I like to build things. So I try and avoid those all-in-one, all-encompassing solutions, but I also try and avoid the all-in-one, sorry, the non-in-one, the Express.js, the raw, here's the request of response, knock yourself out. It's too little. I want a happy medium. Well, that's cool. Here's a quick word from our sponsor. Vercel is the platform for front-end developers, providing the speed and reliability innovators need to create at the moment of inspiration. Founded by the creators of Next.js, Vercel has zero configuration support for 35 plus front-end frameworks, including SvelteKit. We enable the world's largest brands like Under Armour, eBay, and Nintendo to iterate faster and create quality software. Try out Vercel today to experience the easiest way to use Svelte. So when I was looking for things to talk about today, I just saw that there were a lot of job openings and good ones that we've had speakers at Svelte Summit. And I just wanted to list a few of those. So Spiegel, the German newspaper, is hiring, is it Matthias? Is that who it is on Twitter? I always struggle to map the names on Discord to names on Twitter. That's what I said at Svelte Summit, is that we needed the Discord and the Twitter handle and the image of everybody so we could tell who they were. anyways so i have it linked in there but they need a visuals felt developer at spiegel cool what do you wonder i was just wondering if there's a way of making like a bot or something where you could just ask it about a twitter account and it'll show you the discord name or discord where it'll show you the twitter account name i bet open ai or chat gpt or whatever would do that oh gosh no it's too much it's too much well i was thinking more interested parties could link this to themselves they could say this is my account this is my twitter handles just whatever else like like link tree but built into discord oh gotcha yeah i mean i know you can set up your profile on discord to have all that but it would be nice if you had an easy way to like link people together too oh that's that's if you could do it on the profile then that's cool that's yeah you you can put all of your stuff in your profile but you have to actually go and search that person out on discord and click right i i have mine in my about me section with like all my different links oh yeah I guess you can't, you can't reverse search. Cause I'd want to say, I want to reverse search my Twitter handle from like, like, yeah, I'm not sure. So there's a thing called orbit that will like map your communities that you're in. And that will kind of keep track of the people in your different communities. So that would go over Twitter and discord and that might do what you're thinking. Um, yeah. Okay. Back to job opening. So UBS was another talk that we had, Rand Zucker did a talk on UBS at our last Felt Summit, and they are hiring a junior and a senior Svelte developer. And you can just message at Rand Zucker on Discord, R-A-N-Z-U-K-E-R, and get in touch with them about a job opening there. And then Railbird is also hiring a software engineer, and I have links to all of those in the show notes. Sweet. Okay, so lots of fun job openings. And I know the tech world right now is like, going insane with all the layoffs that are happening. And it just it feels like it's never ending. But I speak from experience that it sucked, but there are better things out there. So just keep looking and keep your head up. Okay, yeah. Nothing to add on that. nothing nothing to add on that i'm amazed that the the layoff thing is still going it's it's really unfortunate it feels like it's just not gonna stop and i mean people are just jumping on the train at this point and each week it seems like there's a new company added to it but i hope well it slows down yeah i understood that one of the reasons that it's like a train is because people were seeing opportunity to use google's layoff to mask their own exactly which is uh unfortunate that should be my unpopular opinion i mean i feel i feel both sides right when you're running a company and you need to reduce headcount to keep your costs to keep yourself afloat you know if you don't do that everyone loses their jobs but maybe there is a point where people should have gone hey you know what we hired too fast we shouldn't hide that fast we should learn a lesson here and you know trying to

 keep calm and in good in the good times as well as you know yeah and i do get both sides too but i think a lot of companies are using it as a scapegoat yeah that it bothers me so yeah absolutely okay back to our list here so thrilt now has scrollytelling capabilities so um cool penguin did a talk or no i'm sorry ron ron did a talk on scrollytelling at spelt summit and Threlt can now do that. Threlt is a 3.js library for Svelte. Is that a good way to describe it? And we've had one of the developers there on the podcast. So we have another podcast you can go listen to all about Threlt. We should link that one. Yeah, it's in the show notes. Already linked in there. It's just a Twitter post. I think Alex Warnes put on Twitter about the scroller telling nice and i'm gonna let you do the last one because it's a svelte society thing svelte society the hackathon yes i don't think we've talked about the hackathon yet on svelte i thought i thought we announced it on svelte radio maybe i was maybe you weren't there and i was there i don't know but anyway there is a svelte hackathon that's possible it's possible but who knows we yeah i mean we do a lot of radio here so who knows yeah so svelte hackathon with not so svelte prizes so essentially as i remember it here there is a twelve thousand dollar is that right total price pool for the prize pool yeah i think that is right because kevin wrote it with 12 period 000 and people freaked out about it silly euro silly euro what does that mean 12 12 12 12 price for everyone it's like three dollars per prize no so it is it is actually 12 000 i did i did joke on twitter that was 12 as well but it is 12 000 so there's 3 000 for the best whiz bangery so if you've got some um some whiz banging then you can get that prize 3,000 for best library so this is building something with Svelte package which is cool that's recently been changed to just be less intrusive I think just be generally a bit better and less it was doing a lot of magic and now it does less magic and that actually better um i say lots of magic it was it was munging a package json file now it doesn do that so yeah package three thousand dollar prize for that let's explain what whiz bangery is too so it's on novelty quality and ability to inspire delight yes i like that description delightful delightful stuff we it's the joy we call those wow moments whimsy that's another way whimsy yeah that's whimsy yes although whimsy is more like casual it's it's something fleeting and and you know whereas wispangry is like in your face wow check out ron au's youtube presentation level yes floating heads and everything yeah i'm still like floored that he did that that whole episode it's amazing i i don't know where people get time i really don't yeah so the prizes are 3 000 for the first 3 000 for the second 3 000 for the best ecosystem integration so this is um integrating stuff with other web tech so So anything that talks to something else that's on the web, you know, is eligible for this. There's no examples on this one. I would say that probably an example of this would be something, I'm not going to say web components because that's one thing that we kind of try and do internally, but something to do with integrating something on the web already. So I don't know, it could be, I don't want to have to say like wrapper libraries for things because we shouldn't have those, but maybe there's something that's... Would that page transition API, like we were talking about Jeff doing earlier, be something that would qualify? I don't know. It could be a good candidate. You know, it could be a good candidate. The thing is, I can't think of something because I haven't got an idea for this category. Yeah. If you have, then you'll know what it is. It's need to know basis. And then the second prize. So this is where it confused me because the second prize is the same categories, but it's second prize for that. And it's £1,000 per category. So that's the full £12,000 there. so exciting stuff yeah because when you add it up it's tangerine and you're like wait well i had one but it's for three categories so we have three six nine and then a thousand i wasn't like i wasn like wait because i can add up anyways um so third fourth and fifth place the next three winners future category will be awarded one for cell pro account and one stack blitz astronaut account courtesy of the sponsors yes and thank you for cell and stack blitz for sponsoring i know check that out so i have a pro account and it's awesome i don't have a stack blitz astronaut account now i want one I do have one because I did ViteConf last year. They gave me a year for the astronaut account. Nice. Okay. It's pretty cool. They have that code flow thing that's coming out. Who can't enter? Svelte Society Organizers, Svelte Ambassadors, Svelte Sirens Organizers, Svelte Org Members, Family Members. Okay. So I can't. I'm at least for this category. We're out. Yeah. Cool. Yeah. So go definitely read the rules before you embark on some huge project. And your family members. So tell your family. Yeah. I mean, it's fair, isn't it? Yes, that is fair. But yeah, check the sites out. So it's hack.sveltesociety.dev. Check that out. Get yourself a non-svelte prize for a Svelte project. It's very confusing. It runs from February 17th to April 17th. So you still have a good month plus. Two months, nearly. Nearly two months. This little syntax here confused my other podcast co-host, Alex. He said, wait, what is that? And then he's like, oh, it starts February 17th and it ends April 17th. So they're trying to be a little clever with the HTML brackets. I don't know if I like it. It's difficult. And there's a space in it. It should be like slash 17 space April. Yeah, something. You know? I don't know. Because it could be an unvalueless attribute, it would be April. But the site is gorgeous. I love the 3D stuff behind the Svelte logo in the corner. I don't know who designs these sites now, but they're great. I know that Willow and there were several people in here. I want to get as many people as I can. Simon's in this thread. Enrico's in the thread. Kareem. Ben. I don't know if it was Danny or who does the music, the audio stuff. Uh, forgotten, forgotten the name Brady Brady fractal Brady That it Of course course And Brady was also working a lot on the site Nice. Yeah. Yeah, it's really good. So it was a group collaboration effort, but they did a great job on it. Probably a couple important things to mention, actually, is you can have a team between one and three members. So it doesn't have to be just you. You can have other people. um and the other thing is that if you're below the legal age in your country you have to obtain written permission to enter ah so the legal age in your country so it depends on where you're at the mobile view of the website has an amazing animation for the ninth opening too which is really cool nice all right well i think that's all we've got do we want to transition to unpopular opinions yes enough fawning over this hackathon well the hackathon side at least all right and so i've already talked about my unpopular opinions stop laying people off if you don't have a good reason yeah yeah that's good i mean that's a good one i like that it's not unpopular it's not unpopular it's just yeah everything that i think of is just a popular opinion so um cool okay so my unpopular opinion is cloud abstractions are good actually this this kind of relates to my terraform stuff i moved this project for reasons of security uh around database ip restrictions which railway can't do i moved it from railway which is a decent platform actually to google cloud and railway took me like i know 10 minutes set up this has taken me two days and counting to set up a google cloud i do like cloud abstractions because most of the time i don't want to deal with all of the aim permissions and stuff i just want like here we go here's an app deployed done i need to get on with things right i can't face all of the setup and complexity and roles and bindings and inheritance and all the stuff just to run a project in node right so my my point here is that clouds are great and wonderful i'm glad they exist for those who need them but the abstractions like the cell that sit on top absolutely invaluable and shouldn't be shouldn't be missed people are very against them saying they don't deliver any value well i can guarantee that they definitely deliver value because the cost of me working for two days has already been paid for over and over and over again

 are you talking about like serverless abstractions like serverless functions and things that will sit on top of and serverful right railway is serverful it just runs a node app on a little mini instance on on top of aws or something uh you know it's great right it's it it works it takes a few minutes set up and if there's something that doesn't need all the complexity of those of those roles and visions it works well um i tend to agree we're not gonna bicker no we're not there's no controversy there yeah um but there will be with other people i'm sure controversy i can't how do you say i don't know my nose is getting really blocked so i'm trying to say anything right now well i i think that's just a britishism just how you say it is different I said controversy. Well, I'd say controversy. I've heard people say controversy, which I thought was an Americanism, so I have no idea. No clue. Aluminum. No, that's the way I say it. What's the other pronunciation of it? Aluminum. I don't know. There's another one, and it's really bad. You want to know how we say it? Yes. Aluminium. Yes, that. oh it's not really bad that's the way it's said aluminium what aluminium aluminium no because it's got more letters than that aluminium hey how do you say like let's say tarragon how do you say what's what's tarragon tarragon yeah tarragon yeah but what's the what what is it what's the archetype of tarragon and basil and or basil or whatever basil oh no basil what's the what's the archetype what are these they're herbs herbs with an h herb herb it's a silent h herb it's not silent because it's herb there's our unpopular opinion section That's an apropinian, yeah. That's great. Oh, I love it. Why would it be a silent H? That is ridiculous. It is not an herb, it is a herb. It sounds ridiculous when you say it, because that's why. Not in this country If I asked for herbs they be like eh what Then you would be Oh goodness There was another one There was another one. I don't know. I think it's certain states that say it differently. But you know when you get two pieces of metal in electronics and you have a little... Actually, one sec. I'll show you because you can see me on the camera. What's this? Can you see this? Oh, no, I can't. Your mic's in the way. Can you see this thing? an auxiliary cable is that what no it's it's too no it's in the distance sorry it's it's too in the distance and it's plugged in so i don't want to i don't want to but essentially it's for it's for doing like you've got a circuit and you connect the bits of wire together or the bits of metal together i feel like we're playing a game it's like can you guess what this thing is without well i'll tell you i would call it soldering what do you call it soldering soldering why there's an l i don't know i just say it the way i've heard it my entire life it's definitely not soldering it's only sounds rude soldering soldering with an l s-o-l soldering soldering there is an l in it i will give you that i just i just i question lots of lots of things about english in general why are live and live spelled exactly the same oh yeah well that's a whole different thing like why on earth do we do we pronounce things differently when they're the same letters and same combinations this is why i like that i think it's polish everything is the same right so once you can pronounce the two letters together they're always the same and it's great because you can learn them all and then just read polish out loud as if you know it but you don't but you don't know what you're actually saying pronounce it you can read yeah i've been reading like i was reading like polish books when i was about 20 because i was learning polish for a bit and i was just reading the books out loud to people as if i was some kind of bilingual which i'm not that sounds dangerous you can just be saying things to somebody and they'll come up and punch you in the face well i mean i was reading a book it wasn't you know against them yeah hopefully that was safe but that's pretty impressive that you could read it even if you didn't understand exactly because you just learn what the two letters together mean what the little accents on the mean and you know how they had the sound and it's all just reading them out interesting that language looks very scary to me so um it does look scary but it it not as scary as as you expect the thing that scary about it i think will be the usuals like how many genders they have how many how many genders and tenses that you have to say things differently based on yeah that's the way a lot of languages are with like the gender pronouns and it's very difficult to understand and spanish is like that oh yeah i think it's i think it's it could i could be wrong here because i've done this with a lot of languages but i think finnish everything has an implicit gender so like the chair might be a she but the table might be a he yeah and if you mix it up they look at you like what like what are you talking about table i have one more thing to say about language and it was when we were at Svelte Summit in Sweden everywhere says Utfart and I now know that Utfart means exit but it is just the funniest word to say out loud yeah Ausfart in German I think is that how you pronounce it I don't know I probably mispronounced it horribly but it's still hilarious I do I do like going and pronouncing signs of the countries no matter whether i'm wrong or not i think when i first when i first met kev i i had some very old swedish knowledge from when i was really young and i talked to a swedish girl and i learned a few things and one thing she taught me was what i now know is stick which just means leave right because he was on his bike he turned up he was going to go home and i thought i'm gonna i'm gonna shut up my my swedish here i'm gonna say and it's it's written sticker right so i was like stick He's like, what? But it's not. It's thick. And it means like piss off, basically, which is quite funny. Oh, my gosh. Goodness. But I lost the whole thing because I pronounced it wrong and he had no idea what I was saying. And when you have to explain your joke, it's bad. Yes. I'm pasting an Utefart picture in our show notes. Oh, yeah. That Utefart. I don't know that one. I was thinking of the German, but is that sweet? Is that Swedish? Yeah. it yeah we saw it all over in sweden and it just means the exit so like some of the signs have like little pointy arrows and ud fart yeah in german it's got a f a h r t i think and it's aus like aus out is a us i think there's aus fart but yeah same same sort of thing interesting well should we do our picks i don even have one in there yeah uh yeah my pick is quite simple really um one thing i noticed about all these baby things that you get is that they all have massive design flaws and i wish if i had nothing else to do in my life i would reinvent baby things and fix the floors because they're very obvious very obvious flaws to fix for me is that prams don't have any way of having built-in lighting and when you walk around in the winter in england it's usually dark most of the time and pushing a pram gate across busy roads and down you know through woods and little paths uh as england is full of in the dark is not much fun at all so i was sticking bike lights on it and this is an example of how how revolutionary this idea is of putting lights on a pram when i put a bike light hanging off the pram people with other prams would walk past and stare at it to try to figure out how i'd done it like really really really really basic stuff so i am and i'll try and attach a photo to this as well my uh it feels like i've got all my life to do arts and crafts but i really haven't i'm doing things because they're necessities and so because we do a lot of walk in the dark and so i've got had some led strip at home had a lots of usb batteries and so i stuck the led strip on the pram wrapped it in automotive wiring loom tape so it looks like part of the pram and now i can plug my USB cable into the USB battery all the lights were on the pram I've got white ones along the front I've got red ones all along the back really bright and obvious and visible and the looks I get now are ridiculous people get distracted from what they're doing to look at the lights on the pram it's and some woman in the park yesterday was just like she couldn't contain herself she was oh my god she's blown away that I had lights on the pram is it rechargeable yeah it's USB batteries they're just phone batteries you know you get to recharge your phone so it's just one of those um and it's just basic led strip that you get amazon for five quid you know it's it's nothing a pram is a stroller right i'm oh yes a pram is a stroller and a dummy is a pacifier and a dummy you call a passy a dummy a pathy yeah we say passy for short we call them well we call them many things my mum calls them uh doodies for some reason my uh my stepmom not my stepmom my mother-in-law sorry calls them doodies or something like that i think uh and we call i call them dummies so who knows but yeah we don't call them pacifters interesting um some people call them loveys too i've been

 Never heard that one either. Loveys. Lots of fun things. And a blanket you call a comforter. I mean, a certain type of blanket. There is a duvet, a comforter. There are different types of blankets. Okay. Yeah. But you call them blankets too. Yeah. I mean, if I just wanted like a little blanket, like downstairs we have like blankets in our ottoman. That I would call just a blanket to cover up with. Yeah. Sometimes I call my sheet a blanket too. So I interchange them a lot. But a comforter and a duvet are specific types of blankets. Nice. Okay. I didn't know that. I just assumed that all blankets were called comforters. And I thought they are comforting. It's fair enough. And a pacifier definitely pacifies. Like a comforter for me is the thing that goes on top of your bed. That's like the thing that fully covers the bed. And I think a duvet is the one that hangs off the end. sometimes they have like a little decorative yeah blanket or is that the one that goes around the bottom i don't remember but the duvet the duvet is the thing with with with goose down or whatever you got in there to keep yourself warm in this freezing cold country um i would call that a comforter okay so there's duvet then and then on top of that the thing you described i think would be a would be a throw we call it a throw oh interesting there so many weird intricacies with these languages and stuff So I did think of a pick I want to preface this with that I do not agree with J.K. Rowling's ideas and things that have been said about her. And I don't preface this with any of her thoughts. But I do love the game. So Hogwarts Legacy has been, I have a 10-year-old daughter and she is obsessed with Harry Potter. She's read all the books multiple times. And so we got the game and it is beautiful. And I think that it's kind of funny because how she is with her views inside the game, there is a trans person that is voiced. And so they've kind of made little nods to the fact that they don't agree with her and that there are characters with different storylines inside of the game also. And I think it's really beautifully done and it's really fun to play. The combat in it is just amazing and it feels very magical. No spoilers, but I did get thrown into a haunted mansion and it was terrifying yesterday. So that was scary for a children's game. Yeah. Interesting. it's worth noting that actually a lot of these things that she doesn't have the rights to anymore anyway so you not really directly supporting her she sold them really I thought she still makes royalties or whatever off of some of of this she might be depends on who it is i know that the disney films the directorship not her anymore anyway yeah the films are the films are now disney's or whatever and they're just disney's i used to work for jk rowling and one interesting factoid is that she has a i can't write the name of the role is but she has somebody working with her uh at the office where that person knows the books better than she does like a fact checker what yeah she wrote the books and somebody else knows it better somebody else will that everything she writes afterwards to make sure it's factually and chronologically and story whatever the chronology in the story is correct because because every story has two chronologies right it's got real world chronology and it's and like like your time and our time and it's got the story time chronology yeah um so you can't you've going to check two facts one you've got to check that chronologically inside the book in terms of story it makes sense but you've got to check also that you're not releasing something that could be read before it's happened in the books in real time if you're reading them in series so you've got the real world chronology too interesting so it's like a historian for the harry potter books yeah she knows how every character fits together she knows what's out of time out of out of kilter for a character to think or to say or to do. That something interesting about this game too is it set 100 years before the books So you see some of the ancestors and you see some nods to like some of the things in the movies and our books and so she will have been to all of that she will have been to all of that and said this person does this in future so therefore they can't have they can't have had their hand chopped off yeah i mean it's really the best game i've played on the ps5 so far and i i think it's great i i don't play my playstation it's unplugged but it's also full we had to buy an extra hard drive for it we have a two terabyte hard drive and that will get full and so we have to trade out games on it but yeah everybody else plays all the time i rarely play anymore and this is the first game that i've been like i really want to go play right now it's worth a look it sounds like it's worth a look interesting yeah worth a look cool cool pick i think that's all we have today yeah we've discussed lots of different things fought over language. To the nth degree. Sometimes it's nice when it's just two of us because we have a little more banter back and forth. But we miss Kev and we hope Kev feels better and Sean is not here too. You have to fill the time when there's any two of you. You have to keep the conversation flowing. Exactly, yeah. Well, thank you everyone and we will catch you again next week. Thank you, thank you. Thank you, Brittany. Hey, it's Kev here. if you like the show please drop a review on your favorite podcast player it would help out a lot thanks