 Welcome to Svelte Radio. Hello, another Svelte Radio episode. Today we're back once again, and we have a guest today. It's Rich Harris. welcome hi and of course all of the hosts are here hey so today we're going to talk about uh um a controversial topic maybe controversial topic a bit controversial we'll see i mean there definitely has been controversy but i think it i think the controversy is going to be short-lived all right so uh we're going to talk about the new routing changes basically that are coming to pretty soon i guess so i guess we can start off with what have you guys been doing before we actually start with the the actual meat of the podcast what have you got a status update yeah that's it well i could start with this one then so uh yeah a child has appeared so that's what i've been doing um congrats yeah thank you uh just walking around in the grass and uh it's not it's not how it works sean i don't know that's something involving you announced right yeah you announced it like a pokemon yeah a wild a wild child of head well it is weird because um yeah because because you know i guess all the all the stuff all looking after it and all the waking up and and you know all this kind of stuff and this whole new life change thing does make it almost like a blur people keep telling me it's like a blur but it really is it's like where the last i think it's been nearly seven weeks now so where the last seven weeks gone and since you're pretty much tired all the time which is apparently akin to being kind of half drunk all the time how people could drive i don't i don't know that you know it's crazy but since i'm also half drunk all the time that's being fully drunk all the time which is not as good as it sounds but yeah so so essentially yeah it's an interesting thing it's very exciting it's very frustrating at times it's very it's everything like it's great i mean i'm i'm enjoying it despite everything else you know it it wonderful but it has definitely reduced my ability to actually do real work and um podcasts so good to be back racing a baby is real work that is just throwing that out it is real real work it's a different kind of work it's real real work yeah it does get easier i promise yes also being told that was just a relief so i actually visited anthony's place did and we we had a very nice lunch uh and i have an incriminating photo of anthony drinking a beer while holding a Avery on the other hand yes indeed and I have lots of faces of Sean holding the baby and holding my cats as well at the same time? no not at the same time is that incriminating too? so are you going to hold the shot? not really that's good dating profile yeah there you go alright I have spent the week learning Remix which is kind of interesting to come into this topic today. Oh, yeah. Anthony just, like, pushed away from... You said you were going to be controversial. No, yeah, exactly. Being controversial. I feel like this topic... Keep your enemies close. Right. And, I mean, that's part of the job, right? I have to learn lots of new tech, and it drives this conversation about nested routing, so I'm kind of interested to hear, like, what's going on today. Cool, cool. Yeah, I've just moved this weekend, which is why I'm in a new place. And it's a total chaos. I've been assembling like a flat pack bed thing. It's the worst thing I've done in a long while. I'm never going to do it again. That's pretty much me. So, Rich, you were last on this spring, I think, maybe back in March or something, maybe May. I don't remember exactly. What have you been up to? I mean, the last couple of weeks, I have just been working on SvelteKit. My updates are so much less interesting than everyone else's because it's a more than full-time job at the moment. But it's the best kind of full-time job. It's the kind where you're really energized. Like I get out of bed and I immediately want to start working. And then I kind of don't want to stop for meals. But that's not healthy or sustainable. So I'm going to stop doing that as soon as we implement these drastic changes that we're going to talk about today. Yeah, someone posted some of your Git commit messages. And it's pretty funny. Some of them over the last couple of days have just been more, more, more, more, more, just over and over again. And then there was one about E Lint being a fun sucker and Safari hating Safari as much as the fire of a thousand suns safari needs to die man it so bad this like people always complain about safari and and i get it there's like features that it's missing and stuff but what i think is so often missing from the conversations about safari and how it's like the last bastion that's preventing us from a chrome monoculture is that it has the most weird obscure bugs like every project i have ever worked on i have uncovered a new completely insane bug and it's always like on deadline so i don't have time to like file a like a bug report with webkit and all of that stuff but every time it just leaves me going how how could you build software this way it makes no sense and you know i the webkit engineers are all like clearly brilliant people who are severely under-resourced but i i feel like we don't talk enough about how that it's not just that it's missing features it's that it is just an absolute rat's nest of random bugs and as someone who is not just a web developer but someone who builds tools for web developers i feel like i have an above average exposure to these and it just drives me absolutely insane kevin is your is your hot is your hot take gonna be that you love yeah your unpopular opinion is going to be that you love safari absolutely healthy opinions my note on the obscure bugs is that the unobscure bugs are even worse for instance i think it was a date picker hadn't worked since 2013 i think they've now fixed that but that's that's about at the time I found that. Timely fix. Eight years without a date picker. I mean. That's pretty bad. I think Jim Simmons is doing a good job with the CSS stuff, at least, trying to get it caught up. The data points, the data point I have about WebKit versus Chrome is that Chrome has a thousand engineers working on Chrome and WebKit has 30. So, yeah. That does explain a lot. can individually work very very hard but uh as a whole like it's there's a lot to cover both of those numbers are stupid in directions they are both stupid numbers yeah well how many people should work on a browser i mean i don know it definitely between those two it kind of hard to coordinate a thousand developers on a single project right It doesn make it go fast And are they trying to work on different pieces of it and then put it back together? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, it is what it is, I guess. And as a... Meanwhile, for Firefox, I'm a Firefox guy. I use, that's my daily driver. I do too. How many engineers are working on Firefox still? Did you guys see the – I think it was a thread on Hacker News today or yesterday about some large bank that was just going to straight up stop supporting Firefox for some weird reason. And they were actually going out of their way of actually detecting Firefox and telling the user, oh, please use another browser. A lot of these video things that we use for podcasting don't like Firefox. I actually have to open Chrome to use things like StreamYard. It was the green screen for a while, but I feel like remotely one of the other ones that I've used recently has not supported Firefox. It tells you you can't do it. Oh, Ping, Ping.gg, Theo's new project. I have no idea what that is. It's a company. It's not just a project. Well, company. That's his thing. Sean knows what I'm talking about. Yeah. Yeah. Cool. All right. So yeah, with that controversial topic out of the way, let's move on to another one. So this routing thing, what's up with that? So I guess the backstory here is that SvelteKit was a redo of Sapper, its predecessor. And we got rid of a lot of the craftier bits, like there's no more roll-up and webpack. It's all V under the hood, like shiny and modern. And we took the opportunity to fix up a few other things. But we inherited a lot of the design baggage from Sapper. and so for example the way that the file system-based routing works is inherited directly from sapper if you have in your source slash roots folder a file called about.svelte that will create the slash about root which like seems very straightforward on the surface but that one decision turns out to have some very far-reaching ramifications on the design because if you want something under that root then you have to create a directory and then you can have the about dot svelte or you can have the about slash index dot svelte you can't have both but either one of those is equally valid but

 you probably don't want to have the about.svelte and then have child roots inside the about directory. And so all of this stuff starts to get immediately this from this very obvious starting point, you've immediately got some ambiguity. And as we've been working on SvelteKit, we have found that design feature to have cascading ramifications. And so recently, is there a reason you can't have both because that that is the way remix does it is you have like an about dot txx or jsx and then you have a well no it's not they those have in remix the way they do it is they have about dot um js or jsx or txx or whatever yeah and that is the layout for all of the about routes unless there isn't a directory but then if you do have a directory Then you also have to have the about slash index dot Svelte. And that to me is the worst of all worlds, because now you've got the directory and you have to have the top level file as well. So for each of your routes that have children, you're doubling up the number of items in your directory. And it's also just kind of not clear when you're inside the directory that there's this layout being applied and stuff. And I've looked at all of the different versions of file system-based routing to see which bits are worth stealing. And I'm pretty confident that that is not an idea that we would want to steal. The one that we have stolen, to a large extent, is the Next.js Layouts RFC. The Next version of Next is going to have, basically, it's designed to enable nested layouts, the same that Sapphire had years ago and the same thing that Remix had when it came out. next is going to have that in a future version but the way that they've done that the way that they have gone about redesigning their file system based routing is they have a directory per root so you can no longer define a root with a file alone it has to have a directory and because of that everything instantly becomes so much more predictable and stable and so you have your page dot js inside the directory root and then you have a layout js inside your directory root and everything proceeds from there they also have loading js so that you get like instant skeleton screens while your data is being fetched and stuff like that we don't have that equivalent yet but i read that rfc and some of the parts that haven yet been published publicly and i read it and I thought this is fucking brilliant I going to steal this And so I put something on GitHub Discussions a while back that took elements of that design and adapted it for Svelte. And the reaction was very split. A lot of people didn't quite understand the benefits of the approach. And that's fair because a lot of the benefits are the kinds of things that you don't experience immediately when you become a SvelteKit developer from that previous discussion. But at the same time, we were starting to get issues in the repo about the way that load works. So the way that data fetching works in SvelteKit is historically we have this load function and any page or layout component has a load function that is responsible for getting data for that page. And it works, but it's always been a little bit clunky, a little bit boilerplate-y because you have to put it in a script context equals module because it doesn't belong to the component itself. Inside there, you've got to have your function. inside there you return an object which among other things returns the props and so you're already like four levels of indentation deep before you actually start returning your data and there's so much boilerplate either side of that that it's just a very inelegant way to do things and the way that errors are handled is very inconsistent between apps and so we added what we called for a while page endpoints which is a separate file a separate page.js file or index.js file which is runs on the server always runs on the server and sends data to the client and that's great that handles like 90 of your data fetching needs but we also still have this other thing this this load function and we were starting to get issues around some of the complexities of that because that function that load function is doing so much work that it's unnecessarily complex and a lot of the issues were there were the kind of things that we could have fixed with some incremental design a little bit of engineering work we could have closed those issues but to me they were all starting to point to a more fundamental flaw in the design that we had inherited from Sapper essentially and so a couple of weeks ago Simon who now works alongside tag me at the cell kind of said I looking at some of these issues that we tagged as being related to this topic And I starting to think about like is there a way that like is there something that needs to be done here And we started brainstorming. What if we had started with page endpoints and then we added the load functionality after that? We would probably end up with a very different design. And so we batted some ideas around. We did a bunch of research into how other systems operate. like simon drew up this very complex whimsical chart of like what nuxt and remix and next and everyone else does and that was it the dam had kind of broken and came up with a discussion and we batted it around internally for a while the maintainers took pot shots at it we refined it and then put it up publicly last week expected it to get some reaction but all hell broke loose yeah and do you think it has to do with the syntax change can we talk a little bit about why that's happening and what the reasoning behind that is we can so i mean so when i say that all hell broke please i i should clarify what i mean by that this was on the whole a very well received proposal um the emoji reactions were overwhelmingly positive we got loads of great feedback on reddit and twitter and on the discussion itself um but there was obviously some some dissension just the the sheer scale of the feedback we had in about 12 hours after we posted it we had hundreds of comments on this discussion i remember when the next js layouts rfc went public i was looking at it and i was thinking man i'm so glad i'm not on the next team because when they put something like this up for discussion it's just an absolute fucking fire hose like how can you keep keep on top of this much feedback by the time we closed the discussion a day after it went up it had like way more comments than the next js layouts rfc had had in in a two-month period because like people were seriously energized about this for better or for worse people were extremely energized and the thing that stuck in most people's um mind was the the fact that root files which is to say any file that is responsible for creating a root now has to have a prefix and the prefix is a plus sign for a variety of reasons there's like a lot of different symbols that we could have used but we settled on the plus sign because um it uh it a you know it the character that people use all the time like every time you add two numbers you pressing the plus sign So everyone has the muscle memory And it's a lightweight, symmetrical symbol. And it has the connotation that you are adding a root when you create that file. So we added this prefix. And a lot of people were like, well, why do you need a prefix? Why can't we just have either what we had before, where you can just put files in your folder willy-nilly and they'll all just create roots. Or why don't we have something like index.svel or page.svel without a prefix? And there are some really good technical reasons why it makes much more sense to have a prefix. But I also want to argue that once you get used to doing it this way, the DX reasons as well become very apparent. Not least the fact that when you look at the contents of your code base, all of your files are lexically sorted in a way that really makes sense. You have your child directors first, then you have your root files, and then you have everything else in that directory. So whereas before, if you had a component that only belonged with a single root, you would have to either put it in your lib folder and then import it that way, which is kind of annoying if it's only used in one place, or you would have to give it an underscore prefix so that it becomes invisible. And you don't have to do that anymore. So it's much, much easier to collate code, co-locate code in a sensible way. And that's possible because of the prefix. The other big technical reason, of course, is that it allows us to add new files that have special meaning to SvelteKit in future without it being a breaking change. But it's also like easier to teach. Yeah, I guess that could be a controversial opinion, right? I was just gonna ask like, what does that mean? So I think some people feel like the previous way of doing it was closer to the well what you would call the the platform way i guess you could call it right so slash index would be slash index.html right or slash about dot html would be slash about dot svelte so i think on a lot of superficial yes yeah yeah for very new new people yeah i mean it immediately breaks down right because it on on the platform quote unquote if you have a file called about.html and you have a file called about slash index.html those are different things and they will be treated as different things by most web servers but in SvelteKit about.svelte and about slash

 index.svelte, they are the same thing. So even at that very, very basic level of, oh, this is close to how the platform operates, it's bollocks. It's not how the platform operates at all. And I also think that if someone is coming to web development for the first time, like they don't come with all of these, all of that historical baggage. And so we've got to focus on like, what is actually the simplest thing that we can teach people? What is the most straightforward thing? What is the thing that requires you to memorize the least number of special rules? And the answer is, if you have a plus sign, it's a root file. And as soon as you see that in a code base, like you're immediately going to be like, oh, something's strange about this. I haven't encountered this before as a web developer. And so you go to the SvelteKit docs and you start typing plus page or plus server. And it immediately takes you to the documentation that you need because there's no ambiguity. Whereas right now, like if you open a SvelteKit code base and you see a file called about.svelte and you see a file called underscore widget.svelte, like unless you already know the system, you're going to have a hard time understanding what the distinction is between those two things. Or why about.svelte and underscore underscore layout.svelte are more similar than about.svelte and underscore widget.svelte. so all of this stuff like all of the baggage we're just getting rid of it and we're providing people with one thing to learn that is going to be consistent throughout their application one thing that i do like is the dot server so we're adding the plus to the prefix of a file name to create a route in the routes directory and then if it has a dot server that indicates that it's only going to run on the server right correct yes so there are there are three server files there's the the artist formerly known as page endpoints right so if you had about.svelte and then you had about.js about.js would get data from the server pass it to about.svelte shadow endpoints they were they were briefly called shadow endpoints that was just like some some dumb internal terminology. I love that. I, there was recently like a petition to get that reinstated somehow. I don't know. I want to get rid of the word endpoint altogether because it it just it just jargon And if you can just say like page server file and server file and like that that a lot less ambiguous so anyway so page endpoints are now page.server.js plus page.server.js i guess um we also have layout endpoints or what we're going to be called layout endpoints at plus layout.server.js which does the exact same thing it gets data from the server and passes it into your layout component and then we have plus server.js which is a completely standalone endpoint not responsible for getting data into a page that's when you completely control the the response so if you need to do something like you want to stream some binary data or you have some other requirements that cannot be met by um by svelte kits ssr then that is when you would use class server.js so so would that would that be the equivalent to what you would now do like index.js or .ts yeah so if you have um today in svelte kit if you have an index.js or indeed a this file can be called anything.js as long as it doesn't have a sibling component by the same name it is treated as as what we call a standalone endpoint and that itself is another example of why the current system is is so confusing once you look past the the superficial simplicity right the behavior of the code in this file depends on whether or not another file exists like that is not a good design and so we're getting rid of that yep i kind of started looking at this these changes as like uh like all of the pluses they add functionality to your route in a way exactly yeah yeah it's it's nice one more note on the on the dot server thing something that is not going to be implemented as part of this redesign but will follow soon after is we we want to have that as a convention that any file any module that has the dot server in it is something that can only run on the server and and there's once we have that convention once we have that rule in place, then we can actively prevent you from accidentally importing server side code into your client facing code, which means that we, so we already do this with your private environment variables. For example you can use your API keys and whatever quite freely on the server and we will prevent you from accidentally importing those into the client We going to do that with all of your code So follow-up question on that one. My understanding is React server components introduced this naming syntax, but also they are in the process of leaving it to some unspecified future. Are you aware of this? I wasn't. Is that because they don't like the word server? I don't know. I mean, you talk to Seb and you see what he thinks, but they originally introduced .client.js and .server.js. And one feature of the migration script that I really like is that it respects your Git history. It will use the Git command line if it detects that we're in a Git repo and Git is installed. It will do Git move instead of FS rename, which means that you don't have, like you're not going to have a hard time understanding how these changes are applied. And so your Git diff is very easy to review. It's very easy to check that the auto-migrated parts went well. And it's very easy to see what tasks are left for you. So yeah, I'm super happy with the migration script. I'm glad that we ended up going the extra mile. Yeah. But we want to say what the migration script is again, because I think that got cut off. Sure. So run it. All you need to do is npx svelte-migrate roots. Obviously, it won't work today. like it will migrate your app but then your app will be broken until we release the next version of SvelteKit but if you want to like try it out on a branch and then see what effect it has like understand the changes then that is something that you can do today because we released it this week do you know timeline on when the upgrade might happen when the new changes might come I think it's going to be soon honestly a few people asked me they're like so is this going to be like in a few months or next year and i was like hopefully it's gonna be in a few days and um we've we've been blazing through it this week uh we've made some pretty solid progress i think a lot of the tests are already passing with the new implementation um and i i would guess that if the bulk of it isn't done by early next week then certainly by the end of next week and i would hope much sooner than that so yeah if you're not already on the most current version it's worth getting to the most current version as soon as you can because the migration script assumes that you're on a recent version of SvelteKit if only we had a conference to announce it at yeah yeah it probably be out before the episode is released so it be perfect Yeah probably Well I mean okay There are like several ways to release things You can release candidate things before you 1.0 something. So yeah, I do want to try to test run it through a use case that I have. So I'm kind of waiting for it to be released in some usable form before I really understand the new layout changes. Can we hop on the PR branch? Start using it. Yep. Yeah, so the first commit on the branch, the commit message was it begins. And because GitHub automatically names PRs after the commit message, unless you come up with something different, if you have multiple PRs, it'll do something different. The PR is also called it begins. So if you just go to the pools tab, On the repo, you'll see it there. Exciting. You're muted, Brittany. Oh, no, I was just, in type, it begins. It's just great. All right. That was a lot of changes in one PR, or I guess a couple of PRs. But it is, I mean, you know, sometimes you have this experience when you're writing code that something has felt slightly off about the way code is structured for a long time. And it's always hard to put your finger on what exactly. And then when you do hit upon the right design and you're able to just delete huge chunks of code, everything starts to make sense. I have had that feeling all week. This is the happiest I ever am as a programmer is when I'm switching to a design that just suddenly makes sense. And so even if, like I don't expect people to care about the implementation details i don't expect them to care about my happiness as as the person implementing this stuff but i can tell you that the design that we have come up with is so much more logical so much more robust and so much more scalable and maintainable than the one we had before so even if some of the cosmetic changes are a little bit odd at first i i hope people can trust me that this is on a on every technical level just a vastly superior design and uh i think on that note we can probably move on to unpopular opinions unless you guys have any other questions or oh i was

 I pulled up the It Begins PR and it adds 2,000 lines of code and removes 3,000 lines of code for a net decrease of 1,000 lines. So it kind of tracks. Very, very rough. All right. Unpopular opinions. Who wants to go first? There's some browser wars. So I'll go first because I have a small one. I'm curious to get Rich's opinion about this, actually, as someone who designs meta frameworks. So my opinion is meta frameworks should handle URL state management, meaning query params. I think it's one of those things where you can kind of serialize states and usually is handled on the client side. But it would be interesting if we're dynamically regenerating responses on the server to take it in and render it. I'm not sure I thought I mean, we do take account of query parameters, don't we? I did not know that. I don't know. We don't really have. I mean, so if you are, if you're designing the function that responds to it to request, then you have access to the URL search parameters. Yeah. Is there something more than that we should be doing? Well, no, I think like get set and then like kind of render on like when we're rendering, we should be rendering with the parameters that have been fed in. I don't know. Maybe, maybe that's what that already comes out of the box. I have, I've not been used to doing that. I've been doing it entirely on the client side. And now I'm like, this should just be a pattern with everything. So maybe I should change my opinion from Metaframe, where I should handle URL state management, to just like all apps can make more use of URL state management. And yeah, I think that's kind of what I'm pushing for is like serializable state that goes into a URL so that people can copy and paste it into different places and get to that client-side state that other people have on their browser. Yeah. I mean, you've spent a lot of time thinking about this sort of thing. You've got the seven levels of state management thing, the Dante's Inferno of state, which I would like to understand better because I feel like you're hinting at some problems that as a community we're not that great at solving today and a more unified approach could be could be found. It's it's for like you have another PR on forms it's uh unauthenticated storage it it authenticated storage it user settings it team settings it organizational settings if we keep having to add different paradigms to this like basically the whole idea is that it should be easy to bump things up and down levels of privilege so that we can innovate more. It's kind of the same philosophy in my mind as what you have with the Svelte stores and Svelte motion stores or the Svelte animation stores. Like it should be easy to go from setting something to animating something. So it should be easy to go from setting something locally on the browser to persisting something on a server with different levels of authorization. So I feel like that is something that's always like, MetaFreeWorks are just kind of have their hands up in the air and just go like, do whatever you want. We're not opinionated there. Maybe there should be a bit more standardization here so we know what to do. To me, this kind of like, I think we talked a bit about this last week, right? And I think the example that we talked about like where forms in particular and like having being able to just like go to a specific state of the form just automatically by just pasting in a url with the query params that just takes you to to the the let's say it's the second step with and then it's pre-filled with the first step the wizard or something oh yeah yeah for example i and i think like doesn't phoenix live view kind of work like this so i'm not an expert on phoenix live view obviously but like can't you go from like you can drop the connection to the server right and then the url still has all of the state that you need and then you just refresh the page and it like reconnects with at that specific state i don't know i wasn't aware that it did that that'd be very cool i think so i mean there's definitely some state that cannot be serialized in the url anyway just that i think it's unpopular because the one like everyone kind of reinvents it from first principles every time and i'm just like why isn't this more popular all right all right you guys go on your browser right browser wars safari is the best browser barnan has the best features the breast browser all right i am i am a die-hard firefox user i do not think it is the best browser I think it's actually kind of terrible a lot of the time. I keep it open a few days and I can't type into text inputs without an 800 millisecond lag. So I had to restart Firefox That doesn happen in Chrome I can keep Chrome open for weeks and it fine I love Firefox I support the Mozilla vision I want Firefox to succeed but it is not the best browser I was throwing that out there to throw shade at Kevin. Yeah. I do like their CSS tools better, though. Yeah, I'm just thinking, it feels like Safari feature-wise is on a roll lately. Hopefully they pick up on the buggy stuff that people are experiencing. And it's also like the fact that, well, it doesn't really have to do with the browser per se, but you can only use Safari on iOS, right? That is frustrating. And you always run into these bugs where people have only tested something on Chrome. that has nothing to do with the browser. Yeah, I mean, that's true. I don't know that that is Safari's fault, that web developers are lazy. I am optimistic a little bit about Safari's future because of the regulatory stuff that's happening in Europe that is going to force Apple to open up iOS to competing engines. And if that lights a fire under Apple's ass and gets them to hire more engineers and devote more resources to Safari, then hopefully we can have this privacy-focused, battery-conscious, blah, blah, blah browser that has features that make it useful and also doesn't have the world's longest list of random bugs. Yeah. But it's not going to happen overnight. No. Hopefully next year, then, we'll hire 2,000 engineers. compete with google yeah that was my uh my own popular opinion all right we're ready for picks anyone else no i mean i was just gonna say something stupid like sandwiches are overrated but only pizza rolls for you right there's actually a new pizza roll that opened up here pretty close by uh pretty close to venue as well oh maybe there's time for a new profile picture i was on the fence about comes the conference but now that there now that pizza rolls yeah yeah they even giving them away for free at the moment just trying to to make them popular or something so interesting you just like get get a bunch and put them in your freezer i i think you'd have to download some dumb app or something so unfortunately not yeah all right picks all right can i go first i have to run Go. Go. Okay. So at Svelte Summit, we are going to hold a Svelte Sirens luncheon. We're going to take one of the lunch times on one of the days. We don't know which day yet. And we're just going to have a section for women, non-binary people, allies, anybody to come and ask questions, see what we're about, just hang out, chat with like-minded folks in a safe space. And we're going to do that at Svelte Summit. I guess more details maybe to come on the website at some point. And we also have an August talk with Josephine Schaefer from Storyblock coming, I think, August 16th. I probably should have had that 17th. And they'll also be at Svelte Summit. They will. Yes. Very excited. All right. Thank you. I'm going to run, y'all. Have a good one. Bye. Bye. Okay. All right. So I'll do a quick one. I realized that essentially working remotely, especially if you're running meetings, you are essentially a streamer. Like you are a live stream, like entertainer. Like that is your purpose in life. Like you produce entertainment for the people that you're streaming to. And whether or not it is on Twitch or whether or not it's in Zoom, you should use streaming tools and streaming tricks of the trade. So I've adopted using Stream Deck to entertain my audience when I run meetings. So I will play applause, I'll play intro music, I'll play pause music, meme sounds, anything that will keep people entertained because we are professional streamers now that that is just like peak swix what just like having that take in the first place like drawing that connection is just like a very swixish opinion to have and and i love it like i i love the the way that you can draw threads between different domains like that. But then it's kind of the act on it and go and get it. Do you have like a button that goes, pew, pew, pew, pew, pew, like that? I do, I do. I can't play it now because I don't have the audio hooked up to this recording, but I actually invested in loopbacking.

 which is a, like, it combines audio streams to play it, to pipe it to one input so that when I'm in an application, I can actually set that up. And you have to, like, pay, like, $100 for that. And I did it just to make the streams more entertaining. And so now, like, now when I join a company, all hands, I joined a board meeting once, and they were, like, they actually request for it. They request, like, where's my intro music? Where is the applause? And I can do it. And I think it's just fun. But also, just generally, the whole cross-domain thing, I call it being a barbarian. Barbarians don't care about territory. Barbarians just see what's out there in the plains. And they don't care about the artificial lines you draw between domains. And they just say, all right, this thing looks similar to the other thing. I'm just going to do exactly what I want on the other thing to achieve the results I want. And screw your arbitrary domains. So I like being a barbarian in finance and tech, whatever. i love it yeah do you have one rich yeah my pick is climbing it's my new obsession uh bouldering climbing gym mostly bouldering a new climbing gym opened up around the corner and and jen and i have been going regularly we climbed with a friend last week who came bouldering with us and it's like no no no this is this is fine but top roping is where it's at and so this morning we went to the gym got our belay certifications and so now we're climbing these these very tall walls and then turning around at the top and realizing there's a very long way down um and it's fun it's it's a really good form of exercise because uh i mean apart from the gym being just down the road for us it's like you're in you're out it's very quick there's like a very little fussing involved but while you doing it it impossible to think about anything other than the climbing because it a cognitive thing as much as it is a physical thing And so for those of us who spend most of our lives hunched over laptops thinking about tasks, it's just a really good reset as well as using muscles that I didn't know I had before. So if you have a climbing gym in the area, I heartily recommend that you get a day pass and give it a whirl. It's a lot of fun. Yeah, I can plus one on that. I have a gym pretty close by as well that I go to sometimes. It is a lot of fun. And it doesn't feel like exercising, right? That's part of it. It feels like solving a puzzle. It feels like being a kid again. Like you're playing. Definitely a lot of fun. I don't have a pick. This usually doesn't happen, but... It's okay. we've got plenty to make this episode interesting I was going to say we should do climbing at Svelte Summit I mean sure so it's basically like I think it's like a 10 minute walk from the venue and the hotel so could be fun alright yeah I'll see you guys at Svelte Summit it's just a month away it's very exciting yeah it's going to be a lot of fun after it's it's going to be a lot of uh like i'm going to take a vacation after because it's a it's a lot of weird issues and stuff to it's going to be it's going to be fun for us it's going to be an absolute whirlwind of stress for you ah don't say that i guess i need to be prepared yeah oh well anyway i'll see you uh at svelte summit and uh thanks for coming on again rich yeah thanks for having me yeah see you guys see ya bye