 welcome to spout radio oh that intro music it's really good right nice all right so welcome back to another episode of Svelte Radio. Today we have another guest. This time from, I think he's from Gitpod. They also sponsored Svelte Summit that we recently had, I think last week. And yeah, I'm Kevin. I'm your host. I run a site called Svelte School and I'm involved in Svelte Society. and then I'm joined by my other co-host. Hey, everyone. I'm Sean. I work on developer experience at Temporal and I guess I just shitpost on Twitter for Svelte. Hi, I'm Anthony. I'm a CTF Bianc and I am also a Svelte maintainer. I'm going to hand over to Mike to introduce himself. Hey, everyone. My name is Mike. I work at Gitpod at the moment as a developer and customer success engineer. That's really just a fancy word for saying that I help people who use Gitpod on the technical side. And yeah, I've been using Svelte for quite a while, so we're going to be talking about that today. Welcome. So what's your background? Where did you start in web development? Oh, I started web development back in just around 2000 when everything started to crash. I figured it's a good time to start. basically i started out building java-based web applications and did that for a couple years and then node.js came out and i realized you can now use javascript on the front end and the back end so that you know kind of blew my mind at that time so i dropped it i dropped java and added script to it and i've been working with javascript ever since since then so it's been a bit over 20 years now and um and then swelled came out about two years ago and or i i learned about swelled two years ago and that that completely changed everything again so quite exciting so you started so you you done it all then you done yeah i had the wow effect when jQuery came out and then React and then Swell and it just doesn stop Yeah Cool. Which is, yeah, because I come from the Java world as well, really, and it's interesting the speed that JS moves versus the speed that Java moves. I mean, people are still using the same stuff that I used when I last used Java, which was probably like 10 years ago now or something. the stuff has moved on but it's so niche there's not a lot that's actually changed i agree yeah yeah i feel the same way when i talk to colleagues who do the same still and yeah that's very few things that change same same same yeah all right some people call stability but you know who needs that stability anyway yeah right who needs that okay so so you work at Gitpod and you worked with like, is that like a developer relations role? Yeah, that sounds right. Yeah. Yeah. That's, that's probably a good way to describe it. The goal is really to, on two things, one kind of advocate for, for what we do in terms of the philosophical change from moving from your local development environment to a cloud-based, ephemeral environment that you use for one task and you throw it away and then you get another one for the next task. So that's kind of the role there. I was going to say, maybe we should talk about what Gitpod actually is. That's a good idea. I can give you an overview. Basically, so you're all familiar with getting a new laptop and then either you may have some scripts that you run every time you get a new laptop or you have to go through all the setup steps and everything. So the same is true when you set up a new project or when you want to quickly contribute to an open source project. You go through the readme, you read all the steps and all that, right? How to set up the environment, the right libraries. Gitpod allows you to create a configuration file and fully automate that. And what happens is you run all these steps in what is called a pre-build phase. So every time you do a git push to your repository, the gitpod app basically pulls down the latest code and pre-builds your next development environment with that latest code. so by the time you want to start working on your project you can just click a button on the readme that opens a new tab with vs code a terminal and all the stuff running that you usually have locally but it does that for each project so if you switch from one project to another you don't have an issue with the node version or the Java version it just whatever you need for that specific project it already there for you does this all run the browser or how does this work so at the moment this is this is all browser based uh vs code starts up you have a container behind it that runs a terminal you have f docker running in there and all these things we are working at at the moment on an app that is called the local companion app so that you can actually run things on your laptop that helps with the transition from your local environment to to the cloud gives you a chance to connect to local databases and things like that. Sounds good. Sounds very good. I think most people who hear about this, I mean, I think it's pretty cool. I definitely have had this main point. How does it differ from GitHub Codespaces? Codespaces is actually very similar. The only thing that they currently don't have is the fact that we can run these pre-builds. So with Codespaces, you click the button on GitHub and then you wait for the VM to start up. and you then run your build script just the same way you would do on your local machine, NPM install and NPM build, whatever you have to run. With Gitpod, we do all that, kind of like a CICD pipeline before you even start your environment. So by the time you click the button to start the environment, it gets to a point where in our case, for example, the website that we're building, when I click the button to start an environment, the dev server is already running and my preview is right there for the web application. So SwellKit starts up in the background and I'm basically always ready to code. That's kind of the way to look at it. But the concept is similar and it's actually exciting to have Codespaces come out to help educate the market because it's just such a new concept for many people that any help we can get is obviously welcome. I recently found this feature in VS Code called Remote Containers, I think. Yep. That blew my mind. And I guess this is one step further in a sense. Exactly. And that's why we're building that local companion app. So we can do that one step transition at a time rather than like, hey, let's give up all your local stuff and move everything to the cloud and do it ephemeral. That's too much for many people. It took me a while as well. And having that step by step is just a lot easier going forward. So does this mean I can have all this stuff set on my desktop upstairs and then just move downstairs with my Chromebook, say, and then start using Gitpod and carry on? that right yeah that awesome yeah you should try it actually a real world use case for me always nice when you find those yeah well it it because you know obviously like with the pandemic and stuff being locked in i think a lot of people went well why am i using a laptop still you know there's no there's i'm paying a lot for no power here so people have moved to desktops and that does remove your portability so i think gitpod sounds like it brings it back i think it's it's the fact also that you know all you need is is a an internet connection that has a low latency It doesn't even have to be big bandwidth. It just has to have low latency. I have co-workers that live in a van and travel around Australia. And all they have is, you know, three, four different 4G antennas that, you know, hook up to whatever signal they can get. And he's just fine doing the work wherever he is. That's great. The van life. That's the first time I've actually heard someone actually do that, like for real. I always see these like videos on YouTube with people living in them. And it looks awesome. yeah it's also fun for me to have my one-on-ones with him when you know he's every like every time we talk he's somewhere else where are you today send me your coordinates what does he do for internet like yeah so he has i think he has four different providers that that hook up to cell phone signal but then he also ordered a starlink so once he gets that then he'll be he'll be more free wow of course starlink yeah yeah i really want to do that yeah it does sound does sound a lot of fun yeah just traveling in general sounds like a lot of fun at this point yeah yeah traveling traveling further than the neighborhood yeah yeah yeah just take a train one day yeah yeah could do that at least here in europe it's pretty easy uh so last week we did svelte summit and that was great and we had a lot of different fun talks that were were done by many different people naturally so gitpod as i mentioned in the in the start of the show was a sponsor and you you reached out and you you told me about like gitpod's um migration from from sapper to svelte kit maybe we could talk a bit about that yeah i think i think we uh we may have to change the title of the podcast. I'll tell you the full story. Sapper is only the second, Sapper Juice Welk, it is only the second part of the story. So basically we had, we had previously had a Gatsby

 xp react site that was built by the engineering team and when i joined i was asked to help rebrand the website so we did a full company rebrand and made a bunch of announcements and part of that was rebranding from blue to orange or kumquat more more accurately according to the design team um and um what happened there was i i had a code base that i've never seen before and I was a little bit rusty on React given I've done Svelte for two, two and a half years. And then I was given a team that, you know, never met each other before. It was two freelancers and one of our existing team members. So I was facing that situation of like, what am I going to do? Am I going to try to understand the existing code base? And with a three-week deadline, I really didn't have much leeway there to do much. So I'm like, well, I'm familiar with Svelte and I'm very confident that I can teach the team Svelte in less than a day, at least the stuff they need to know to build a marketing website. So a bit of back and forth and a few conversations with the leadership team. And eventually we went for it and we were like, okay, what now? Because SvelteKit literally just passed the stage of like, hey, this is the public beta. And the first thing you get is like, there will be bugs and expect things to break. So it was not exactly easy for me to make a point for that. So I'm like, okay, I know Zapper though. And I'm familiar with Zapper. I know we can deliver what I need to deliver with Zapper. So, you know, there we go. We spin up a Zapper template and basically get everybody going. And there was a promise from the core team of Svelte that the migration from Zapper to SvelteGate is going to be smooth and seamless. So I took all my faith into the core team and I'm like, you better mean what you say. We went all in with Zapper. And about a week before the deadline, we had to launch. I went, had dinner, sat down, put the headset on, and went through the migration guide on the SvelteKit website. Literally one step at a time. And, you know, by the end of the evening, we were migrated to SvelteKit. And that all ended up in a single PR. So if anybody's interested, we can link to that later. So that was pretty cool and we removed about a third of the lines of code that were there before So that was pretty exciting You might be the first production user of SvelteKit apart from the New York Times Possibly. I don't know. I haven't seen much online. But it was quite exciting to just have that faith, I guess, in the first place, but then see it play out exactly as it was kind of promised in the public channels and things like that. So great work to do the team building SwellKit and the migration guide and everything. That work just as advertised. You mentioned you removed a lot of code. What in particular did you not have to include? Oh, that's a good point. I did not actually look it. I just saw in the GitHub pull request that there is more red than green. That's how I judge that this is a good thing. Yeah. Yeah, well, fair enough. Maybe you just had a really big server.js or something. Potentially. There were definitely a lot of... Yeah, maybe it was a server.js. I'm just trying to pull it up here, see what it shows. Yeah, I think it was also dependencies, actually, that were reduced quite a bit in SwellKit itself. There are very few dependencies that come with SwellKit, from what I've seen, compared to what I had in Zapper that we pulled in. Yeah. There's also a lot of... I think a lot of build infrastructure is gone as well, because it's obviously just the adapters do that stuff for you now and really just all they do is move files around it in honesty. Yeah, that's a good point, yeah. We deployed in Netlify, so we used that adapter. So we can probably assume that the migration worked since you managed to get it merged with a PR there. So what didn't work? Well, what was hard about it, I guess, if that makes sense? Yeah, I think because of the beta label, I think, that the SvelteKit had at that time, it was still lost at the moment. But there were a few bugs that showed up. Like one that I remember quite vividly is we had all that CSS header, footer, everything in place. And then we wanted to style the error page and all the CSS was gone. So that was one of the actual bug. I looked it up in GitHub. It showed up right away and it was fixed within a few days. And the thing is, we were very close to launch, so we made the decision to work around it. But it something that showed up but it was fixed within a day And that kind of same story is something that I saw for any other thing that happened where something wasn quite right But because the demand was so big and so many people were working on it and opening issues, they really got fixed almost as instantly as they were opened. And same for Netlify adapter, the redirects weren't taken into consideration. Again, looking at the source code, it was as easy as just removing a file eventually and things like that. So it's very simple to get around the issues that showed up, but there were a couple of things that were rough. And, you know, now that's a whole different story. Like we are two weeks past when we launched or three weeks by now. And I think starting with SwellKit is perfectly fine now. There's no need to have the safety net of Zapper in the background at this point. Do you think you fixed a lot of those issues yourself? Or do you think that most of them were just fixed kind of by other people? Or were they fixed by the core team? Do you know what the spread was roughly? Yeah, I think there's maybe two or three where we did a workaround. So one was that Netlify redirect issue where all the... There's a Netlify.toml file where you can define your redirects, but then the adapter generated a file like underscore redirects, which overwrites everything in the Netlify.toml. And with that, basically what we did is we just took whatever the adapter wrote into that file. We added it to the Netlify.toml and then had a little post deploy script that removed that underscore redirect. I don't know if that makes sense. It's convoluted. So basically, that was an easy workaround that fixed the issue. Other than that, a lot of it was actually fixed by the core team or contributors to SvelteKit itself. And, you know, you do another upgrade and make sure it works. I think it's still very much work in progress and very active development. So even going from one version to the next, I had to make sure we do a full test of the website, make sure the markdown parsing still works and all these things. But nothing really major that would scare me to do it again. Nice, very nice. Yeah, I've noticed that as well. One day it's working just fine, perfectly, and then there's some new version out, and it just decides to, nope, not today. Not today. Come back in a couple of hours when someone's fixed it. It's kind of funny. I mean, I think we have enough stuff running on Kit now that we tend to spot serious problems now. And also there a sort of work underway to deploy basically like a fully fledged a fully fledged sample app to all the different platforms we kind of support by ourselves So that we'll hopefully be able to see if there's any glaring differences between adapters. So, yeah, I guess, I guess as it evolves and as we end up hosting more and more of Svelte's own infrastructure and own estate on there, then we tend to see things, but obviously production use cases like, like Mike's is, well, like GitPods really is a huge boon to showing us when things break. You know, test and prod live and well as usual. You mentioned the adapters and there's a one issue we had was with Netlify. Suddenly we had 500 errors on the documentation pages and it was very sporadic. You couldn't reproduce it with a browser or anything. And I pulled up some historical logs to see when it happened. there's no pattern or anything and what we have what happened there was we believe it was something in the function that was just breaking and it was like certain time periods when it didn't work really no idea what went on and we just ended up doing the um you know pre-render equals true on on literally everything and and now we just have static pages which makes total sense for a marketing page and documentation there's no need to have any dynamic stuff um yeah but yeah I would have loved to have a central config saying that everything is static without using the static adapter, because I still have some functions that I need to do SSR and things like that. So it was a little shell script that goes through a bunch of Svelte files and injects a header with a pre-renderer to fix that issue as well. Yeah, I'm not sure what this Netlify error is, but if you could, I guess, send it into the support team, they could probably spin up a separate site and then just ping it occasionally to figure out what the issue is. I mean, if it's like a regular time of day or something, that's very bizarre. Unless you have a third party API dependency, maybe that's the issue. Yeah, not too sure. We had people reporting, I can't access stocks. You know, I would check, it works perfectly fine. And then I would check again 20 minutes later, it was broken. And it was just all the stingy. Yeah, I would rely on Pingdom and then maybe also look at the functions logs to see if there's any errors reported. I'm not sure what it is. Yeah, something to look at. Now we're all on static pages, but it's definitely something that, you know,

 If we really need to go back to it, then we need to dive deep. I agree. That makes sense. So I want to bring it back to your team. So they hadn't really touched Svelte at all. What kind of problems did you run into there, like teaching people Svelte? Yeah, that's a good question. So we had one person who maintained a previous website, and then we had two people that were freelancers and just friends of mine that would help out and just make sure we hit the deadline. And so the way we went about that was that because I knew Svelte, I would create a Svelte files, but then there's really nothing to a Svelte file if you don't do any dynamic behavior. So people pick that up and they're like, well, yeah, you don't have to do that for me. I can create my own Svelte file. I'm like, fantastic. Go for it. If you want styles, then you add a style tag at the top. And there's really not much to learn other than that. And when I started doing things like the pre-render equals true, you know, people were curious and I would just send them to the docs and they would read up on it. I think where it got a bit interesting was when we started looking into like the block index page. So each block post at the moment is a markdown file. So we would have to load all these files and then create a list of most recent blocks. So that's where I started looking into hooks and, you know, import.glob and things like that from Swell. from Vite, or is it called Vite? Anyway, so looking into that. Nobody knows. And it's just a matter of explaining what it does and when these functions run. But yeah, very, very low overhead to really get started. And I think we would have had a harder time trying to understand the existing code base written by people that were not part of the team than just telling people like, instead of .html, it's .svelte, and you do whatever you do. If you want a loop, this is how you do a loop. If you do if else, this is how you do if else. Done. Yeah, it's very straightforward. Almost too easy. It sounds pretty smooth. Svelte is kind of like a cheat code in a game. That's how it feels. I think, Mike, you also had a blog post where you talked about your transition from React to Svelte, right? You laid out quite a few reasons there. yeah that was way back when I had a moment I think a year and a half ago I think what I did at that time was I took the React examples on their homepage and I converted them to Svelte And then I got a lot of pushback because they're like, well, you could write the React more efficiently. And I was like, okay, I'm just trying to make a point. I think the reply guys showed up. but but to be serious right i mean on a serious note i think the fact that you don't have to like you can just write html in in a swelt file and you're good to go i think this is just such a easy onboarding journey that you you get with swelt that it's very low effort for anybody to get started yeah i remember when i started it was well as well too when i when i first heard of it and then Svelte 3 came out, everything got easier and now with SvelteKit I feel that the challenges or the difficulties with Zapper we had, it's gone as well. The adapters take care of a lot of stuff and the hooks get rid of all the little file system stuff that you used to do to load markdown files and parse them and get a list of blog posts. All that is really, really clean now. Yeah, it's like every time someone tries Svelte they they usually stick around at least from my experience it's nice they do and then they then they start looking for a job in svelte because it's uh they're like i don't know to use you whatever else at work and there are like jobs popping up a lot more often now than yeah like a year ago at least that's how i perceive it maybe maybe it's no i think i think you're right i mean look at you know we monitor jobs channel quite a lot and this there's there's a lot of activity now where they didn't used to be things are repairing my twitter feed now which is interesting because i didn't i didn't see that before and it's uh yeah i definitely see an uptick there's also about 3 000 members in the discord and i remember going wow you know we've got a thousand in here and i didn't really look after that because it's like well it's huge now and then next minute this sort of peak is 3 300 something i'm like well okay there's got to be jobs out that right because well people yeah we've got um we've got 9 000 on twitter um wow and yes it's growing a few hundred every every month yeah the the youtube channel it's it's also something like that like 10 000 subscribers or something or is it i need to look this up that might be your Personal one Yeah 8 8 I just pulled it up 8 youtube slash sort society if anyone wants to check it out um we recently spent some time cleaning up the landing page so you can actually see uh all the past talks yeah nice actually talking when we talked about jobs it reminded me of something kind of related but the ecosystem you know like if if you're in any other language you can go npm install whatever you need i think with swelt So I got a bit of pushback at the beginning that saying that, well, you know, Svelte doesn't have all these plugins and packages that we can just pull in and install. But then my view on that was always that, well, maybe you don't need a plugin or an NPM package. Maybe you can just write it yourself because it's so easy. And then you have what you need and you don't have all the other boilerplate around it that you don't need. So it turns out that we actually got by very easily by just building a few things ourselves. Like in the Gatsby site, for example, we had an RSS feed generator where we would give it a directory of markdown files. It would do its thing. Writing that in Svelte was, I don't know, like 20 lines of code max, maybe less. And you just create that RSS string by yourself and get the stuff from a hook and you're good to go. So I think that there's a couple of things that really initially was a bit of a pushback. And then we were like, well, let's write it ourselves. And, you know, a couple hours later, it's deployed to production to work. Yeah. So I think one of the examples in the original Svelte template was, or the Sapper template was an RSS feed. Yeah. And it's just like, well, it's so simple to do, then why am I using a plugin? You know, all those bumps I don't need. I think the other thing is, like you said, exactly about the ecosystem. people judge the ecosystem of a framework or a library based upon doing a search um for let's say i don't know their favorite calendar and with svelte attached to it and it's not there and they go well there's no ecosystem there's no components but i mean i would never ever have suggested that i could ever build a calendar but i've completely rewritten the svelte calendar project from scratch now and it's just because it's felt i can do it it's it's straightforward it's easy makes it makes sense it's logical and it was almost like a black box before i couldn't see how anyone could actually do it i thought the complexity was huge so i absolutely agree that it's a shame that kind of people are judged upon that that ecosystem when really it's not important because you know our ecosystem is felt is is vanilla js right we we in my belief and i tried this across multiple languages to make sure it easier to integrate Svelte with the vanilla JavaScript project than it is to integrate any other framework, React, Vue, whatever, with a vanilla JavaScript project because they all need something special to make it compatible. And you just don't in Svelte. So you've got all the Svelte components, but you've also got all of the vanilla JS components that are just there and will just work. And the only reason for wrappers is maybe to make them a bit more Svelte so you can have like a, I don't know, a fancy API or some reactivity or whatever, but you can just build it on your project if you really need it. So yeah, totally agree with what you said there. I've been reflecting on this as well. React is very insistent on the functional model of things. That's why there's sort of, I think the popular term is impedance mismatch when you have to write the React dash whatever version just to use that library. Whereas Felt, you can just kind of plug it in directly. I think it also is easier when it's a marketing site versus some apps where, let's say you need a bigger ecosystem, like a table or some kind of accessibility or mobile-friendly interface. So, yeah, I mean, definitely have a more critical thought about how much of the ecosystem you really need because it turns out you actually don't need a lot of it. I think it helps you write smaller sites anyway, because you don't just mindlessly import the first thing that shows up on Google. You actually have some critical thought about what you really need. And then the last point I would bring up is that actually inside of this FeltKit repo, there's an examples folder with a Hacker News clone. And there's actually an RSS sample code there. You can just copy and paste. So I'm not sure if that's what you did, Mike. But if other people, you don't have to write it yourself. You can just copy and paste. darn I should have talked to you earlier then but I'm going to compare it now see how their slogs sources mine I mean there's actually a few of these around because all the Svelte infrastructure is written in Svelte obviously so the example Sapper project has an RSS feed in it the Svelte site has an example of pulling in a bunch of markdown files and building docs from them so there's quite a few useful common scenarios the Sapper project also had a blog in it originally so you can check the way the blog is done there but yeah there's lots of these kind of real world use cases that live within the example project as a base to start the stuff from

 You mentioned markdown. One thing we did there, we used MD Swags, if I pronounced that right. Oh, yeah. And I wasn't quite sure how it's going to work. We have about 120-ish markdown pages across the blog and the documentation. So I wasn't quite sure if it's going to slow down my build time or startup time or anything like that. But it was almost not noticeable. It's very, very quick to get this thing up and running and integrated. So, yeah, pretty exciting. MD Swags is nice. Yeah, I also use it. And then the other thing there was that because it allows you to use SQL Rehype and the other plugin types, there were a lot of these things used in the Gatsby config file on the previous site. So I would literally be able to go into the Gatsby config file, copy the plugin name, remove Gatsby dash, find the actual, you know, Rehype plugin, and then just hook that into MD Swags. And off we would go, like, including YouTube videos or things like that in your markdown. very very little effort there to to make this work so pretty pretty exciting i was just looking through my notes another thing that i kind of wrote down was the reason why we and a lot of reasons why we switched as well kit and i think i'm looking at three lines and i think to summarize the whole thing is it's just less cognitive overhead i think they're like in in your head when you open as well project i feel like there's very little you need to you know keep in your mind You just look at the file, you see what's going on. It's all in one file. And you don't have to worry about any other magic or things like that that are happening anywhere else. That really helps you again. Yeah, I totally agree. But I also actually probably want to extend that thought a bit by saying that this is one of the reasons that I've been historically very averse to the multiple components in a single file support that other frameworks have. the reason being just because it's the cognitive overhead it's the fact is that if i look in a file i know that everything inside there is to do with that file i know there's like lots of different opinions on this but um yeah it's definitely my opinion that that file has this stuff in it and that's where to find it and that's that it's just it's just easier i can i can think of like one scenario where you kind of want some inline component and that's where you have like an each thing with like an if, you have an if statement and then you have an each inside of that and you kind of want to reuse the same thing I don know if you guys have run into that I do but i just create a component for it right the end of thing yeah yeah but sometimes it like three lines of code or whatever sure sure i think i think the thing is yeah for me it's i i do believe there are genuine use cases for it but my personal opinion is that it's just easier as a rule you know when you encounter a new svelte project say you join a company and they're working in svelte that you just know that there's only one thing inside that file um you know and i think one of the things that historically put me off react or learning further react was because every time i encountered a react project all i saw was a was a i think it's mdx isn't it where you've just got basically mdx it's jsx sorry it's just got all these ternaries in it that build the dom and it's just like why i can't read this i can't pull everything out i can't understand it and it and it happened again and again and again i'm like I get like this is convenient, but we shouldn't do this. And this seems to be encouraged and it drove me nuts. So that was one of the reasons that Svelte looked so appealing when I discovered it, which is I think version one as well. React is a bit of a word soup, which is also kind of how I feel about TypeScript. Yeah, I mean, it's totally down to use, right? You don't have to do that. People don't have to do that. But it's literally, you know, the people who I say this to who are quite hardcore reactors, will say that it's fine, like it's readable, it's cool. Like, okay, well, if you're going to encourage it, then that's definitely not a pro in my mind. Yeah, especially hard for new people coming in to familiarize themselves. Because you're holding every turn in your head, which is just possible for a while. Unless you're one of those 100x developers. Oh, sure. Yeah. yeah i recently started rewriting the uh the svelte society website in svelte kit and i've decided to do it in typescript as well because i want to i want to actually like learn typescript well we're gonna see how that goes another one of my projects that never gonna come to fruition we'll see i think what you'll find is a lot of support out there for it so if you get stuck there will be people who can help you yeah i did i would just want to say like we use typescuber as well and we have the type files in a separate folder so we can pull them in where we need it and um it does it does make in my opinion it does make a developer experience just that much smoother so instead of like you know passing in the string once as a prop and then next time it a number and then you have like some kind of stuff going on in the component, now it's just the compiler or the browser, actually the editor even yells at you when you start throwing the wrong thing at it. So it definitely helps. Yeah, yeah. I mean, I see the pros of it. It's just that like every time I've tried to get into it, it's just a lot of stuff on the screen that's unfamiliar, if that makes sense. I'm finding it to be a lot of fun, though. So what's next for Gitpod in terms of Svelte? Are you guys doing any other projects using Svelte? This is my opportunity to talk to my team if they listen to the podcast. So listen carefully. So I have this, I have not really communicated that yet, but why not do it here, right? I think I want to make sure that the experience for the engineering team to work on the website is just so mind-blowing that eventually we're going to migrate the actual application to Svelte as well. And I think the whole concept of Gitpod is to be always ready to code, right? And one thing is you need to be quick. you just can't wait for stuff to download and see like you know i mean it happens naturally because we're pulling down docker containers and stuff but at least let's make sure that the web application that supports all that is is really snappy and and just you know basically blows your mind because our core customers are all developers right and yeah i want to make sure that people say They're like, hey, do you want to see a good, really fast Svelte application? Go check out Gitpod.io. And regardless of whether it's the marketing page or the actual application, I want this to be the default. So what's next? I will have to talk to my team now because it's not public information. So I think the plan here is to see what it takes to maybe even just do one part of the app in Svelte. and then the rest, we keep what it is right now and see how that goes. But there's definitely a goal that I have for later this year to see what it takes to migrate. That should be really cool Yeah I like to see more uh more uh like uh more application type projects in svelte that be fun yeah yeah absolutely yeah there nothing stopping you from building apps as well that are interactive and do things and you know rather than just static pages so yeah yeah all So I know you watched Svelte Summit last Sunday because I ran into you on the meatball session there. First connection, you and me. That was awesome. Yeah, and we breezed through it real quickly because we knew we were going to do the podcast. So did you find any of the talks particularly fun? Yeah, I think in terms of the long-term impact to Svelte and the community, I really enjoyed, I think it was the very first one about the school, is it in Finland that is using Svelte? Norway. Norway. Norway, yeah. I think, so the reason I find this really exciting is because when I mentor others and help them get into web development, I use Svelte for obvious reasons. And it's just so simple. Like, you know, you start with HTML and then you layer on styling and then you layer on JavaScript. And that's that journey. So I think for many people to get into programming, like my wife tried it a couple of years ago, and the frustration came out of the JavaScript stuff. Like I don't want to learn JavaScript to just show something on a website. So now you don't have to learn JavaScript. You can actually, well, you can do an HTML page in the past as well. But now if you want to use something that you can then build on top, you can use Svelte, and it's very, very easy onboarding. So I really enjoyed that talk and the fact that there are now schools that kind of use that in their curriculum. It was very exciting for me. Yeah, that's definitely interesting to me too. Yeah, I think that was my favorite as well. Maybe I shouldn't have favorites. You like them all equally. Yeah. What about you, Anthony? Which one did you? Of all the talks, it's hard to know, isn't it? What's my favorite one? Which one stuck out to me? I know. I think, to be honest, you know, it's... Sorry? The Svelte Node GUI? That was fun. Yeah, I mean, especially after doing the podcast as well. I think it's a tough one because...

 some of the talks are very much like, I mean, for example, Ron's as usual, like it sticks in your mind and it's just, you know, whether or not you're interested in the subject matter, the way he presented it was just fantastic. So it's, yeah, it's a tough one to know, but I mean it probably the no-go is useful because I have this notion of building a lot of sort of, I would say desktop style apps. So it's kind of the perfect thing because everyone complains about Electron, it was too fast, too big, too slow, et cetera, et cetera. so it's definitely probably the most useful one. Shall I be fair and say it's the most useful one to me? Because I like Ron's because you just entertain constantly. It just flows. But in terms of getting something from it, I think probably NodeGoo actually is a good one for that. Yeah, so for reference, Ron's talk was the swoosh, yeah, shabam, when you've seen Motion one. If you haven't seen it, you should go watch it. And I'm also terrible at animation, so it's actually you know it's quite useful to know how it's not just magic it's not flash or whatever yeah yeah what about you sean did you i guess i'll highlight the data viz one uh from amelia and russell and i just noticed that we typoed both of their names on the summit site really yeah oh no both names wrong oh no um anyway uh you know they they had they had really good uh there's a very strong database community with Svelte they really jive with uh how much how simple it is and how well it connects with d3 and obviously Amelia and Russell have a lot of experience working with Svelte and d3 with uh their putting uh visualizations and I think uh I just really enjoyed having having the ability to to feature their work because I know it's going to inspire a lot of other people to try Svelte out. And we actually talked about this, that it'd be cool to just feature a data viz in a future event. Maybe not a Svelte Summit, maybe just like a data viz day or something like that. Mortis, the funner, and a bunch of other pretty influential people, I think, in the data viz community are just like, they're pretty interested. And it'd be great to just feature it and explore it more. Yeah, it could be a lot of fun. What kind of stuff did you guys miss there? Like Mike, for example, were there any topics that you would have wanted to see on Svelte Summit Good question The way I usually approach the summits is that I come with an open mind and I see what's being thrown at me. And it's always entertaining. I know there's some hesitations for companies to make the jump and move over the Svelte. So I wonder if it would make sense to maybe have a bunch of people doing lightning talks, similar to what we're doing right now on the podcast, but in a much shorter fashion to show like, hey, look, we did the migration. That's what happened. Maybe just to kind of highlight that it's actually not scary or it's not a bad thing to do or something, you know, just get people more encouraged to start using Svelte in production environments. not sure how we would do that on a swell coming day but some way to highlight what's in production at the moment would be pretty good yeah yeah i think we could we could probably do it live in in some sense just bring people up that want to talk about their experience that yeah that could be fun yeah there's a concept called the unconference where uh you just have a block of time and then you show up with like things you want to talk about people vote and then whoever gets the highest vote just goes up and talks about it. So it's a bit less prepared, but you're guaranteed satisfaction because people asked for the topic. Yeah, that sounds fun. That's like a review committee or something like that. But I also mentioned that we do run a YouTube and it's a community YouTube that's just featured, that's just open to contributions. We have various meetups. I think Svelte Indonesia streams their meetups and I think one of the Brazil meetups also. So, but if you want to talk, if you're going to do a lightning talk, get in touch with me or just DM this Felt Society account. We'll check that and send in your talk and talk about your company and your migration. We love to collect your stories. And the problem with Felt Summit was that we wanted it to hopefully end within five hours. I think we went up to six-ish. So, we have limited time. But on YouTube, we have unlimited space. So, I really want to encourage more people to just share stuff. And if we can make Svelte Society like a central repository where people can discover this, then even better. Yeah, that could be fun. All right, so any last few things you want to talk about with regards to Svelte or Gitpod or in general Well try it out See if you like it Take your repo URL gitpod hash in front of it hit enter Should SvelteKit be using Gitpod to develop? Is that something that we should implement? Sorry, am I allowed to answer that? Yeah, I mean, you know, hey, like, we probably need to demonstrate it. But it'd be nice to, I guess, feedback that love into SvelteKit's development workflow itself. Obviously, I have no say in the matter. I mean, there's no reason. Like, it's on a per-contributor basis, isn't it? So it doesn't have to be a unilateral thing, right? What I can do is I can open a PR and, you know, you guys can test it out. It's really not that hard. It basically runs a bunch of commands that you would run locally. So let me open that up and then we'll see what we do with it. It's not a big deal. Yeah. I just think it would be cool to eventually, you know, I know that Gipart's app isn't in Svelte yet, but eventually use the Svelte app to, you know, contribute to Svelte. Yeah. That could be fun. That could be a lot of fun. All right. So I guess that's it for this time. Thank you, Mike, for coming on. Where can people find you? People can find me anywhere online with Mike Nicholas as my handle. So the easiest is probably twitter.com slash Mike Nicholas. All right. See what's up there. I'll tweet whenever something crosses my mind. Are you keen on hosting Svelte Canada meetups? Yeah, I have the handle on Twitter. And I have a half-baked logo. You officially run Swat Canada right now. I do officially run it with two followers or something like that. Yeah, so now that I'm starting to settle in and actually live where I want to live, I have time for things like that again. So, yeah, my half-baked logo is going to eventually be a fully-baked logo, and then we'll be up and running in the next little one. What was the logo? So I got really inspired by the Swell France Society with the baguette. So I'm like, maybe a hockey stick or something like that. We'll figure that part out. But once that all settled then we start doing activities Yeah Which city are you in I in Vancouver at the moment Okay Yeah So if people are interested in Vancouver they should hit you up Definitely should, yes. All right. Awesome. I guess we... Oh, I almost forgot. The pics? The pics? I don't even have a pic. Do you guys have pics? So I do have a pic. Again, it's a bit of an abstract one. It's a bit of a weird one. um it's a and it's a it is what i thought up in a few minutes before this started because i was thinking i've got a pick because nothing's interesting to me anymore too busy to have interests but what if what i found was as part of what we're doing regarding um you know being being a booking platform booking system people ask for integrations with equipment and one thing i thought might be quite challenging is a physical um again it's radio so i'm only showing it to participants here but basically it's a handheld qr scanner and i thought it'd be really like awkward to integrate the web with it and apis and whatever else and what i discovered was that the when you plug the qr scanner in it just identifies as a keyboard so actually you can just scan anything in the qr code and as long as you've got a text field focused or a text editor or anything at all that can take input it will just write into that field and press enter for you so the integration with these is really simple because all you're doing is is saying if you know when characters are typed type into a hidden text field or whatever um and if it's the enter key then submit it that's that's all there is to it i just i just found that fascinating this little device it's just like another keyboard and i could just go boop boop and like type words i could have qr's on the wall right for my favorites and go there we go go to that address go to that address because so much fun with this now i know how it works so my pick is handheld qr scanners because they're cool like why don't we use more these things more right yeah i mean just print out like a bunch of qr codes everything can be qr codes it wasn't that that was like the dream at some point a couple of years ago it probably every everybody thought everything was going to use like a qr code you could you could see like you could automate scripts on your machine right you could automate a set of keystrokes that do something in your machine like i don't know load load some program and and open some file you could just make a qr code for it and then have a shortcut a physical shortcut it is it is the dream and it can be the dream it can live on

 on Amazon or wherever else some of the best you like. So do you have any picks, Sean or Mike? Yeah, I've been frantically looking for one. I guess I'll just pick a person. I feel like this person, Josh Nussbaum on Twitter. So on Twitter, his handle is Josh Nuss. He's just been putting out a lot of really good Svelte stuff. he had a Svelte and Superbase integration so with SvelteKit being more of a full stack framework, you kind of need a database to go along with it and you can get one off of Cloudflare or Begin but I think Superbase is also a really good option and yeah, he's been working on a bunch of stuff I think he just did an animation or Svelte Motion or animation store and he's just working on a lot of different things so we should try to feature community members that's a good idea yeah that's cool I like that yeah I totally second Josh's work really like he's been active for so long and as he said the content is very high quality it's very good follow for sure and he only has 480 followers we could have more followers for this guy the currency of the internet Twitter followers it probably means and someone tweeted this it probably means that it's higher quality content because he's got fewer followers Yeah I have to confess I don have a pick Do you have one Mike I think it a small one but I recently learned that we have a team set up on timezone So we are currently looking at it right now. We're in seven time zones at the moment. So knowing what time it is where, eventually I'll probably memorize it, but at least for now it's pretty helpful to know that I probably shouldn't call certain people right now. it comes in handy and you see a little avatar as well so you know who who lives where that oh i find it pretty pretty handy that's nice i need that i suck at time zones so okay so i have i have a pick it's a it's a swedish pastry called chocolate balls and it's pretty much just oats, butter, some sugar and some cocoa powder. I just mix up and yeah, you can roll them in like shredded coconut or sugar. That's pretty much it. You just roll them into balls and you eat them. It's really good. I mean, it sounds like porridge breakfast healthy. I'm down. You had me at pastry. Yeah, pastries are my worst enemy. I eat too many pastries. That's too good. All right. On that note, thank you again for coming on the show, and we'll talk to you guys next time. Bye. Thank you all. Bye.