 welcome to svelte radio hello everyone welcome back to another svelte radio episode i almost said Svelte episode radio, that'd be wrong. I'm joined by my two co-hosts today, Anthony, Brittany, hello. Hello. Hey, we're finally back, the three of us. Back all of us together. In one episode, that's amazing. And today we also have a guest, Ilya. I think that's how you pronounce it? Yeah, right. Exactly. 100%. Perfect. I did it. Great. So, Ilya, you are a Svelte developer or a developer in general, I suppose, right? You're very active on the Skeet site, Blue Sky. I love it. I mean, I really do. It's so nice because you share a lot of stuff, not just for Svelte, but also like some Astro stuff, because I think you use Astro. Oh, yeah, right. So that's nice, because I have no idea what's going on in Astro. But we invited you to talk today about NGOs and like working with NGOs as like a developer and stuff. And it seems like an interesting story compared to like everyone else that's just working. I have a dumb question. What's an NGO? Oh, right. Perfect. I recently gave a talk on this topic and I had a slide. So NGO is an acronym. It's for non-governmental organization. And this is what people most associate with what we actually talk about, which is NPO and nonprofit organization, because every company technically is also an NGO. But yeah, it's more about like nonprofit. So civic society, foundations, so everything which is not governmental and usually not a company. Cool. So like organizations that help out in disaster relief or homeless people or stuff like that? Or wildlife, saving wildlife? Just some examples I guess I think this is the more applied or practical non organizations or ngos i mean there are many um mostly they are advocating for something i mean even like like like greenpeace and its core is like a like an advocating or a company or organization which is doing advocacy yeah so not all of them have like like boots on the ground but uh right many people with with some like expertise where the government is for whatever reason not not providing uh the type of service or knowledge that they should be. Yeah. So we all met at Svelte Summit earlier this year. That was a lot of fun. And you talked about you wanted to do, well, actually, before we get into the meetup thing, maybe you can just present yourself. Who are you? Other than working with NGOs. Yeah, right. Yeah, my name is Ilya. So I've been living in Berlin now for like 30 years. and I switched basically careers like multiple times. So like after high school, I joined the army for a while and then I quit the army and then I went to a university and it's a bit similar to this US GI Bill. So basically they paid for my bachelor's and that also means I can only pick one once and I chose a social science one and then towards the end of this bachelor's, I decided that I don't want to pursue a career in like political science or something like this. and then for my masters I found a place where I could do computer science as a minor interesting combination I mean they have like a term for it it's called computational social science it's basically the major is in social science and then you apply big data methods back then this wasn't like a big thing and then eventually I started doing like data visualizations as a freelancer basically also already for NGOs and this like one thing led to another. I started building interactives. I started building websites and now I'm also self-hosting my stuff. Nice, nice. Yeah, we talked. Right. We talked before the show started about self-hosting and the Cloudflare outage. By the way. Yeah, it's nice. Yeah, so I just wanted to mention me self-hosting did not save the Cloudflare outage. Because I'm using Cloudflare tunnels. So, so I'm like tunneling all my traffic through Cloudflare. So I don have to expose my my IP and stuff to to shady people that want to DDoS my server So now I thinking should I just ditch Cloudflare as well I don't know. Maybe I should. Maybe I should. So you studied social science and then you moved into computer science and then data visualizations. and I assume you found Svelte somewhere around there, like in making visualizations or when did you discover Svelte? Yeah, I mean, there are always a bunch of like path dependencies. And one thing is I first heard of Svelte from Gregor Eich. So, you know, like the co-founder of Data Wrapper who also presented the Svelte plot library at the Svelte Summit. Because in Berlin and many, like many, I think, places where there's lots of media, there is a meetup series, which is called Hacks and Hackers, and it's developers and journalists meeting. And back then, I was basically just following what they were doing, like interactive journalism, you know, all those impressive visuals. And my idea was, how can I apply this in the NGO sector? So because they have usually they have those policy papers, those reports, it's like PDFs with 30 pages or something like this, it's just text. But there is a story and there's data. And how can you like, help them make this become alive? and he mentioned Svelte. I didn't use it back then because I was just using jQuery, actually, and 11t, and I looked into it. As long as it works, right? Yeah, but it was still painful, and then I think I compared like a tiny component to Alpine, and importing Alpine as a library was like the library itself was bigger than a compiled Svelte component, and I was like, oh, okay, so that's it, basically, so this is what I'm going to use, and then I think during COVID I also was in an online workshop from Tan Li Hao, he did a Svelte workshop, it must have been like I don't know, five years ago or something like that and then this is how I picked it up because it felt very natural to me because I knew a bit of like HTML and CSS already and you know, Svelte is platform first so it just like totally felt natural to me to start using it Makes sense Makes sense Did I hear that right though that you were using Eleventy which is like a no JavaScript framework and then you were putting jQuery into it Yeah but like Eleventy uses JavaScript to compile to build a website or back then it was Yeah but like no JavaScript on the front end right Yeah, yeah, yeah. And now I'm using Astro as well. Okay, nice. Right. So if you go from like visualizations, then how did you find, like how did you pivot into NGOs or like how did you end up building websites for NGOs? yeah doing work for um right so i like i didn't think about what i would be doing during my masters um and i had like two job prospects or job opportunities and both would have been were related to the government and both did not happen for reasons you cannot like imagine like in in one case there was like a government affair on federal level and i was supposed to join as a contractor and then they just not like didn't what is it like pay pay the money or make the money available for this and the other one is we had um we have like a think tank which is government sponsored let's call it government sponsored and for it to have a budget there needs to be a government and we had like government you know coalition negotiations and then one party withdrew and then again i knew oh shit my my job my job entry my post army post-bachelors, post-masters entry in the market. It's not going to happen. And then coincidentally, because I was also very online back then on Twitter, someone who was like basically working in this space with a vision for, you know, new digital things, they invited me and just introduced me to their boss. And I was like, oh, I need maps for my book. Oh, wow. I created maps for the book and I was like, oh, we need more maps and visualizations for a report. and I did those as well. And then I was like, okay, and now we have additional funding. We would like to put it online. Right. I mean, I know how to put in SVG online. I mean, let me figure out if I can also like, you know, wrap it in some HTML with some text. And this is how it started, right? And like, yeah, this was like with Eleventy and I figured out a lot of things, learned a bit, you know, about accessibility and responsive design. And yeah, and then one thing led to another and I was booked for other websites, web products. So I didn't plan for it. It's just like I accidentally became a web developer, right? And like this was one pillar.

 The other pillar is because I was then, you know, implementing interactive visualizations, media companies or people who are doing data journalism, they noticed me, they saw this on Twitter. I was like, hey, we need support for a project. Would you like to join and like, you know, work on a particular feature or component or something like this? And this is how I basically started working with Svelte as my framework full time. Right. Nice. Nice. And so was it like the small bundle thing that pulled you in initially? It sounded like that when you compared it to Alpine earlier. This was one heuristic because I had no clue how CDNs or something like that works. So I was like, oh, no, I need to get this bundle size down as much as possible. That was one thing. The other thing is that as a kid, I learned HTML and CSS a bit. And I was running a website, but that was like early 2000s or so. and then I didn't touch any of that I'd never learned JavaScript or something like that and then when I during my bachelors I had a student job and I had to write some HTML and CSS so then it all came back and then when I started working on interactive stuff for the web and then I saw React I worked with React like on two or three projects and I was like what the heck is this I mean there's HTML and there's CSS you just need to add some behavior you know and There is this, there is state in a variable. Why is it not rendering? Why do I need to do extra work to, to render a value of a variable? And with Svelte, it was exactly like this, right? Yeah. Yeah. It just, like, you have to have, I call it a JavaScript brain to, like, understand React. You have to think about things from the JavaScript point of view, but Svelte, like, you're thinking about it, like, HTML, CSS, you have your markup just separated and you keep it separated in your brain. yeah yeah totally agree and then with um especially with the accessibility linter and with all those you know bindings on on the dom element like with the the attributes binding the disabled state binding all those bindings it felt just like so natural it's like literally i have this state and i just want to be the state applied here and so just along the ergonomics of writing it felt like supernatural because it was just like okay i know html i know css i just need to some state just a tiny little, uh, it took me two or three months to adjust But I have to say Matthias Stahl from Spiegel And I was working at the media company like two years ago. I just started there. And like the situation was very intense because like one person quit and there would be four elections. So I knew I was like in for lots of trouble. and Matthias in April or so, April 2004, he posted, okay, Spiegel is using Svelte 5. And I was like, okay, I learned so much from him. If he is going all in on Svelte 5 while this was still in beta, I'm going to adopt it as well. And then it like really paid out. So I'm totally happy. I'm super happy now. Like first two months were a shock, but now I'm a believer. Yeah, it's good. I think I had kind of a similar reaction as well. Especially when they eliminated getter setters, like the explicit ones. There used to be an explicit get set syntax. Right, yeah. And this was the moment I was like, okay. You mentioned Matthias Stahl. He actually used to live here in Stockholm. And I met him on the very, I think it was the very first Svelte Stockholm meetup that we hosted over here. So that's a fun coincidence. And now he's at Der Spiegel doing data viz. And I think he also came to the first in-person summit, no? I don't remember. Maybe. Yeah, I don't know. It was like so long ago. And I was also very stressed out. Didn't he give a talk? Yeah, I have a fear because, you know, I remember saying to him that I was literally having this really weird heated debate or watching a heated debate and just joining in now and then to, like, troll the people, like, to fan the flames a bit because I thought it was amusing on Twitter. But it was between Dr. Matthew Stoll, is that on Twitter? I don't know if it was a real doctor or not, and someone else. Yeah, and so basically I said to him at the time, may have been the first summit, like by the way I'm just trolling you on Twitter nice to meet you kind of thing something along those lines you know so maybe it was the first summit where that when it happened yeah I don remember my brain was totally fried there were a couple of talks from like newspaper organizations at the first summit and i just i was thinking that they were one of them no i so so i think that was bloomberg that was julian and uh okay yeah yeah britney britney yeah um yeah i i i don't remember but yeah he's he's a it's a really nice guy um you should you should never get that name wrong again because i introduced her as like some other name for some reason and of course i get my own name wrong yeah it's not easy it's not easy doing hard work you know it's a lot of names to keep in your head and like oh it's read the correct notes and stuff and like make sure you're on the right line and yeah yeah yeah so uh um you're So I want to mention this early in the episode because some people, if people drop off, but you're doing a meetup in Berlin, right? Maybe we should talk a bit about that. You just announced it like the other day, I think. Yeah, but I'm going to fully disclaim you pressured me into doing this at the summit, basically. Since then, it's been like a heavy rock on my shoulders to kick it off. And I think I shamed you a bit as well on Discord, like, oh, you should stop tweeting so much and do the meetup. Exactly, exactly, yeah. All in good fun. I don't want to really pressure you. I mean, in August, this thing happened where, for whatever reason, Paolo asked me on Bluescape if I would like to join the ambassadors. And I was like, I had real imposed feelings because all the core maintainers are there and I don't contribute in terms of PRs or something like that to Svelte. But then I realized, okay, one thing I can do is actually spread the word because every time I talk to people about Svelte, afterwards they tell me, man, you really it sounds convincing, you are hyped you love it, sounds good, I'm going to try it and they try and then they start using it and then they were like, oh, it's awesome and like, yeah, so this is how I also actually once created my own colleague because I told them to start learning it and then a year later I was able to, you know, co-work with them, right? So about the Svelte meetup, December 9th, should be Tuesday. We will be hosted by Data Wrapper in Berlin in their new office. Nice. And we will have three talks And it not only me doing this It also Peter from XYFlow So basically the person who ported and implemented SvelteFlow this graph visualization graph library will have three talks One will be Peter introducing SvelteFlow, talking about in detail, and also doing like a little side extra discussion comparing Svelte to React because they are maintaining two libraries, one for React, which is the main one, XYFlow, and the second one is SvelteFlow. So obviously they have real-world benchmarks, what it means to basically implement the same library in two different frameworks. That's awesome. We are still in discussions about the second talk, which might be big, but I can't reveal it. And then depending on how much basically time this person would need for their talk, I will either jump in with the talk or not, and I will talk about this community survey app I built with SvelteKit, Superbase. um some bun middleware paraglide all the stuff so there will be three talks there will be pizza registration is on the svelte guild guild host yeah you'll find berlin in the in the network and on blue sky and we are like we have like i don't know like 25 seats maybe and 20 or 21 already signed up so yeah get the four four last seats might actually be full by the time This goes out next Thursday. So hopefully not, but we'll see. We'll see. And people always drop off. We have no idea. Right. Exactly, exactly. But we have no idea, like, how many people are in Berlin. So this is, like, where we are, like, a bit cautious, you know, about, like, do we get a full room or not? And now, like, we just announced it yesterday. There were already 21 people who basically signed up within 24 hours. So let's see. I think Svelte is popular. Yeah. I think especially in Germany and Berlin area, like there's quite a few companies and things that use it in that area. So I think you'll get quite a few. Yeah. How is the Berlin tech scene like other than Svelte? Is it a lot of meetups or? From what I hear from other people living in other places, it might be a bit similar. So before COVID, they were like, you could go to a meetup every day somewhere. There would be one on JavaScript, on TypeScript, on mapmaking, on whatever, on every topic. And then with COVID, I think there was some like, what is it, like it hit the dent or so a bit. Now it's recovering. And yes, there...

 There's like quite a big tech scene. So, you know, we know Git Butler has an office in Berlin, Data Rep is in Berlin. All the media companies are there. All the consultancies are there, McKinsey, Accenture, whatever. Plus we had like three or four different boot camps. And all the people from those boot camps, they basically joined all those, you know, mobile first companies. The one for Lieferando, Amazon. So there are like, I don't know, thousands of developers actually. Yeah. So it will take some time to convince every one of them, each one of them to join and start using Svelte. But yeah, I think maybe one person at a time. And then we'll take over the work. Use a megaphone and like go to the canteen and just shout like Svelte. I feel like, wouldn't it be a very Berlin-ish to do like a Svelte tech rave meetup or something like that? Yeah, right. Like that. With some techno, obviously. I'll put my flights. Oh, right. You're an old rave person, right? An old rave person. Well, I mean, you used to go to raves and stuff. I used to go to raves. I mean, I still would if I didn't have two children after all time. Yeah. What's a rave like? I've never been to a rave. What's a rave like? How do you describe it? I don't know, it's probably not for everyone. The music's loud. It's really loud music. It's very dark and often feels kind of cold in there until you get dancing a bit. And then it's just kind of like, I don't know, it's a weird experience. If you could explain it, maybe it wouldn't be as fun, right? So it's more that you can't really put your, I can't put a pin on why it's good. It's just kind of good. I mean, it's basically like a nightclub vibe, but different. It is, but more like, yeah, I feel like a lot of nightclubs are cheesy and kind of like, you know, the music's not as great. And in a rave, you're kind of in that zone and the music continues and stuff like that. Yeah, it's pretty good. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, you can simulate it, like, you know, just code until 3 a.m., put on some music in the background and dim the lights. Or I don't know if you have like a rave music. Yeah, I don't know about the raves you go to, but the raves I go to don't feel like that. I feel like you need like those Philips Hue lights that like blink in different colors maybe and then you can have the music on the strobe lights right smoke machine is that what it's called? smoke machine, lasers you need the people you need to be surrounded by people just invite all your friends have them stand around you while you do coding but I think most people around you, they need to be in varying states of consciousness in order to make it feel like a rave as well Fair enough It sounds like we should have a rave at the next World Summit I think so And I think I already know who the DJ will be Right Who's the DJ going to be? I can't DJ by the way Not in my skill set We'll invite Brady of course Oh yeah the guy that made the Svelte Radio intro song. That's true. He's not been to one of the Svelte Summits yet. No? So I hope he can come for the next one. That'd be fun. He can do some live production. You've got to have a break from touring. Right. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay, sorry. So a bit of a tangent there. Sorry, listeners. but so so okay so what kind of stuff are you building now for ngos like give us some examples and what what how is it different well i don't know how much you've worked with like regular business clients and then ngos like what's the difference yeah so oh there are so many differences i feel it's like um it's a bit like like really was it like a stark contrast basically between working for those two environments but then also i met some employers where they are like right in between. So they feel like they, they, they have the, like a for-profit mission. So they try to earn money, but then they work like an NGO or administration or something like this. So I think I've, I've seen like basically the three worlds. Um, I think one thing is that like the first thing about NGOs is mostly they don't have fun, their own funding. They, they always, they usually depend on, on, on grants, on donations. Um, this is why they are not for profit. They don't create any revenue, right? And there are two things. One thing is that they don't have a product to sell. They have insights to sell or they are trying to advocate for something. So then they are not trying to sell something They are basically trying to pursue people in learning about something or understanding it or trying to see it from a different point of view so work for them mostly is like story first so you need to figure out how to help them to tell a particular story it could be like a report or for a website basically you need to help them figure out like to present themselves so that like especially if they have different audiences because usually like like one NGO I'm working with right now, they have two audiences. One is their community because it's like, it's the community basically of black BIPOC people in Germany. And first of all, it's like a huge community. It's like 1 million people that they estimate. Like Germany has 80 million people and, and they assume or the estimate is that like 1 million has like some, some, some BIPOC roots, like African German or African American. That's one thing. And one thing is obviously they try to create stuff for their own community, for themselves, but then they also need to attract funders. So basically, you know, was it like white-collar people, people who are not black and people who are maybe like super senior in some federal administration or something like this. And you need to figure out how to make a website work for both of them, for both of those communities. but and this is the third thing since they don't have their own budget they usually have project budget project budget means they have applied for funding maybe a year ago maybe two years ago so whatever you are doing like then when you are implementing all the pre-processing all the preparations happened two years ago and you know what happens like in the tech world within two years right and so they arrive and they're like hey yeah we have like a budget of i don't know like 6,000 euros. Can you like get us a website and the dashboard and we need the newsletter and this and this and this and this and this. Yeah. So, so obviously this is why you have to use the, like the most efficient technologies you can find. And this is like where, where Svelte comes in as one of the most efficient pieces of the puzzle. This is like, I think like one of the biggest things that you need to understand first is that it's not that like, you know, we have like a project budget, which we can like adjust. and the deadline is basically has been set like two years ago or something like this usually. That's one thing. And the other thing is they are not used to doing product. So they don't have like a PO or something like that. If you're lucky, maybe they have like a fixed, was it in their organization, maybe they have a person full responsible for communications if you are lucky That means that this person knows what the JPEG is and that you can upload five megabyte images But usually they don And usually they don't have their own IT department. They don't have a domain or something like this. So you need to set up everything for them. And the other thing is it's project-based. So that means that if you launch a website, the funding is done. You get paid once. There is no such thing that they are going to pay you for the next four years to maintain it. So first of all, you need to negotiate it in advance. But second, you need to make sure that your website still runs or can be deployed in four years with tiny updates maybe. Right, right. So interesting. So you're very budget constrained and you know you have like a hard limit compared to like if you're working for a client at a company doing like a marketing website or something. Right, exactly. But then on the other hand, what I see in comparison to like for-profit companies is usually the deadline is not really a hard deadline unless there is like a particular date that they want to launch a report website because there will be some summit. If this is not the case, there is no real deadline. And that means that even if the budget is smaller, what you then have is time. And this is where basically how I, I think, grew into this full stack developer role and why I had this opportunity to try out everything is basically, okay, look, your budget is very limited. But if you give me three months of time for this and we do like a weekly iteration, that means that I can study some super base. I can study some SQL. I can figure out how to like what stack we could use. And then it becomes a bit more like a paid traineeship or something like this. And then the day rate can be like 500 or even less. If you're lucky, you can get maybe like a 700 euro day rate or something like this. But you can figure out what to do, how to basically max out on time. Yeah. Interesting. That's a very different style of working with clients. i i've only ever worked with like paid like uh well not paid but like uh yeah businesses like right so it's very very different so what what kind of stuff have you noticed that are like so i assume since like the the budget is constrained you you kind of have to prioritize right what do you often work with

 like minimizing the scope, changing the scope of what the NGO wants? Because you mentioned like, we want a newsletter, we want blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. But then like, there's only so much money to implement stuff, right? So what, in terms of like, yeah, where would you, not cut corners, but like, what would you prioritize in your experience? That's a tough question because it depends. Right. Now, lucky me is that I also did this like one design thinking certificate and then it helped me with some. I mean, I know like design thinking, it's very similar to human computing interaction or something like this. It's like, you know, this marketing buzzword for a particular way of thinking about what you're going to do. What I'm trying to do as a principle is, you know, there's this project triangle or product triangle. Was it feasibility, desirability, and the third pillar? Feasibility, desirability. So does it make sense? Can we afford it? And what do we actually want? And what I'm trying to do with them is to ignore feasibility because we will find ways to make it feasible, so to implement it and focus on desirability. And then they have many, many ideas, huge wish list. Second thing is that we do is we prioritize, which is like essential for the launch, for product launch, which is essential to achieve a particular goal. And everything else is basically on top. If we have time or if there's something that I want to basically learn in my free time, then we're going to bake it in. But otherwise, we are trying to focus on the core. And this is also like one thing that you need to teach them or to figure out with them is that for themselves, they need to figure out what the unique selling point of something is or what the core is. Sometimes they probably don't know. Right, exactly. And because like I think in like nine out of 10 cases, it's academics. It's people with a political science degree or public policy degree or something like this. They have so much knowledge in their brain, but no one like ever thought them at uni or during the PhD or whatever, how to tell a story, how to focus on the essential parts. And like basically, you know, how to tell them how to turn a page into a single paragraph. Right. This is actually where the most of the work is figuring out the story. and then you realize oh okay maybe we don't need this feature it doesn't make sense and if you like also all those techniques like how might we or why why why you know the why why why method like ask someone why they want something three times Why why is something Right And then it will be most like nine out of 10 times it will eliminate itself and the feature will disappear Yeah. It's a difference between like a highly technical person or a discipline of being highly technical versus being, you know, product orientated. And I think that there's a huge void there that the people that you want on your team are not necessarily the most clever or technically adept people. They're the people of the biggest product focus when you're a small company or when you're a small team. So maybe there's a comparison to draw there between very, very small companies and NGOs. Because there's only so much knowledge that you can have inside of a small company, right? I mean, sure, there are like geniuses in small companies that know everything, of course, but I assume that's the case in NGOs as well. One thing I noticed is I think in companies, for whatever reason, even in small ones, there's still some type of like a division of labor or hierarchy. and they have like at least an implicit understanding of who decides and who maybe can veto something and who is basically just there so that their advisory can be heard but it's not a blocker in NGOs maybe because of this community spirit or something like this it's usually very flat so there are many people who can veto something and there are also many people who can voice ideas right and yeah this is the hardest part basically because sometimes it's like contrarian opinions or contrarian wishes. And this is not, you can do the regression to the mean, then you will have like a mediocre product or you need to kind of do some Game of Thrones thing behind the scenes. Yeah. Yeah. It's lots, it's still, it's lots of politics at those companies. And it's, it's personal because this is also one thing at NGOs, people very often are very like personally invested in a particular topic because either they are like, right, they care a lot because it's either they are impacted or it's someone whom they don't know who is impacted by some social policy or so. Everything is quite personal. Like lots of this stuff. This is why also they like very often burn out because there is no separation between work and free time, right? So yeah, there are like many very special things, but I think it prepares me for the for-profit market. If you very invested in something as well but the company structure means that you can change it that also quite tiring And it can burn you out very quickly right So you know if you given and I guess in my world I would call that being invested in something ownership If you're given ownership of something or you believe you have ownership of something, you should be able to change it at your will without having to go through lots of red tape, which is probably what I call the other bit. I know flat structures generally, I prefer flat structures and they work, but I've never really tried a true flat structure at scale. And I think that if you try to, this is what I interviewed with Meta. I mean, I was young and I needed the money and I didn't, I just did. But one of the things they told me was that basically the whole company is flat and if there's any problems, you go straight to Zuckerberg. And I said, sure, that sounds like what happened there. That sounds realistic, I believe you. and it's that kind of thing is like um you know you could it's you're laughing right because there's no way that works right that doesn't work right it's just nonsense so i think i think that yeah ownership is why i like to work in small companies because you can get ownership you can move things you know you may even still be a cog in a wheel feel like a cog in a wheel but as long as that cog can turn whereas if you're not able to turn that cog then yeah i there is a counter like example of like a large company that is, I mean, not as large as Meta, but Valve, right? They're supposedly a very flat company. But they also kind of like, we work on whatever we want to work on, which is very nice. That's kind of nice. That's kind of nice. And I believe that kind of company works and I'm going to get shot down in flames for this, but that's apparently how I understand that Palantir works as well, right? Is that you kind of work on where you think your efforts could be best put. and the way that the reason that works is because the people they hire are the kind of people who can do that it wouldn't work in every company where you know people are hired uh let's say with a lesser bar like a lower bar to get it to entry because those people wouldn't be able to correctly prioritize and wouldn't be able to correctly figure out what is and isn't important it's a certain caliber of person and i think that maybe valve has those people right and that's and that's great i love i love that right you know complete autonomy and if you've got complete autonomy like that and the people are right then you can have a flat structure but yeah I don't think anyone believes it can happen at the scale of Meta, even though I'm sure Meta has a high bar as well, but still, there's so many people. Right, yeah. Someone has to make a decision somewhere right Yeah and it not always suck right And the thing is you can also slice a company up to provide more autonomy i worked in sky which is a huge company our team had autonomy but our team was like 16 people there were other teams that had absolutely zero autonomy and it's just because the way things are sliced and dice and i think if you if you can slice and dice it even within a large organization where you have full control and we had to break down some barriers like they had a provisioning computer provisioning thing i joined the company as a contractor getting paid a load of money and it was going to take four weeks for them to get a computer through this provisioning service and it was going to be just a regular pc that would cost like 800 quid at the shop and it was five grand because it's being provisioned via british telecom or some crap like that and they just went they went to pc world and they expensed the computer for me and they bought the computer and put it on my desk within the same day right and it's that kind of thing that if you can do that it wasn't really allowed but if you can do that they can work in a big company you can have the autonomy and the ownership and you can control things yourself yes like there were teams who just wouldn't do that. I'd be like, well, you just sit there for four weeks, get paid, do nothing, whilst we provision a really expensive computer for you. Sounds very boring as well. Very, very boring, very slow. Nothing changes. You get disrupted easily, that kind of thing. So that's why Sky were doing this thing where they would have this autonomy in certain teams to try and change things. And it works. It works. It definitely works. Yeah. So, Ilya, we mentioned kind of like the struggles of working with an NGO? Well, like some of the hard stuff with working with NGOs. What are some of the good things that you've experienced working with these? I mean, I think it was super helpful to hear Anthony explaining like his past employers because that's the upside. If you work for NGOs, you are usually the only person and you are the only technical person. And also like the way I worked like I also did this product vision design creative thing. So basically also, you know, like leading the story or trying to come up with a narrative. First of all, you can be, you, you can be fully creative. If you are a creative person, there's basically to no limit what you can contribute to them. And obviously as a tech person, you can preserve your sanity because you can choose your own stack. Yeah. You, you know, there's, you are not inheriting some, some like, I don't know, react code base from 2019. You are writing from scratch mostly, right? You will start from scratch, but there is no tailwind. You just write the stuff the way you imagine it should be written.

 I think this is like also, especially now with, you know, with Svelte, with the rapid development of Svelte, that means that you can try out the cutting edge stuff. You can try out Svelte 5 server-side rendering with Bun or like the thing that I tried out is Svelte in Astro server islands for pre-rendering Astro content. And it works. And I can just present it to them. And look, we have something. No one has done it before, but it works and it's awesome. and we can make your landing page display for 15 events dynamically from a DB and you don't need to redeploy on every event every time you edit an event. So this freedom gives, like, I don't know, it gives me a lot of joy. Yeah. Yeah, I can imagine, like, being able to just also experimenting, right, with new features and things that you might not be able to do And if you're stuck on Svelte 4, for example, which some companies are, right? I think, Brittany, you mentioned like a while back that you guys were stuck on Svelte 4 and just upgraded to Svelte 5 or something? My previous company, we were stuck on Svelte 3 on the main app. And then, yeah, they couldn't even upgrade it to Svelte 4. And then we started working on a separate project in Svelte 4 right before Svelte 5 came out. And that one, from what I've heard from people that still work there, is still not migrated. They still haven't worked on this React project they were going to switch to. But yeah, the new company I work for, they have like an old plugin that uses Svelte 4 and I'm migrating it to Svelte 5, but in a completely new repo. So we didn't go through the migration, just working on it completely fresh. So there's like that, that's usually what happens in a company. you're stuck on an old version of something. Yeah. Like Anthony and Zapper. Well, have you, do you have news? I mean, we're still doing it. We are, we now have a dedicated resource, basically, and it's Peru, right? Who's, who's migrating this page by page. Yeah. He's getting there. There's a lot to go, but he's getting, he's getting there. He's getting there. That's good. That's good. Zapper is like ancient at this time, at this point, right? Yeah. Well, yeah. I bet it still runs, though. Yeah. It still runs. It still boots really slowly. It's still like you start the app up and it takes like 20 seconds to start, maybe more. Was it Ben McCann that like had a bunch of stuff on Sapper for a long time I don know Possibly Or no who does ElderJS Oh that's Nick. Nick. Yeah. But was it ElderJS? No, that's ElderJS is like his, his own thing. So he built another framework. Yeah. I swear somebody was on Sapper for like a really long time and had, I don't remember a bunch of sites, It's like just still running it for a long time. I mean, if it works, it works. Oh, yeah. And it does work in production. It works, right? I think Decathlon had their whole site written in Sapper. I think they were using Sapper. I'm not 100% sure they were just using Svelte or something else. But they rebuilt their site, which was really creaking. And it was amazing in Svelte. And then they recently rebranded and built it again in something else. And it's shit. It's just terrible. Oh, no. Like, I love Decathlon. I think they're brilliant. But I don't know why they decided to move away from Svelte. but their new site, it just sucks. It looks like Shopify, like it's that bad. Maybe it is Shopify. Yeah. I mean, again, I don't think Shopify is necessarily bad, but I think it has a certain format if you don't configure it. And I think it looks like that. Isn't that RuneSense? Yeah, it's probably RuneSense, which in itself is, right, we're getting down a tangent here. But my point being that it looks like a basic and configured Shopify instance, and it operates like one, And you used to be able to really dig into the search a lot and find things you wanted. Now you can't. Yeah, yeah. You just can't. This discussion kind of brings up another thought. So working with these NGOs, I assume you don't have to really worry that much about, like, oh, in the future, we need to upgrade to Svelte 6 because they're probably just going to stick to the website that you build. Or like, how does that? But of course you want to build something that you can maintain, right? Yeah, what's the life-time? Since it's project-based, it must be different. Both questions are very good, especially Brittany's, because the oldest website I built was like in 2020 or something like this, like a whole website which I built. I don't need to redeploy it. The only thing that breaks is if Safari releases a new version of the browser, then something always breaks for whatever reason. Like one website I built, I think in 2021, the academic freedom index, um, they are pair contract. I need to do daily updates because every year there a new index And I went actually the whole story with it so far It like it astro but then from Svelte 3 to Svelte 4 from Svelte 4 to Svelte 5 And I think like that there will be no big changes between Svelte 5 and 6 because the focus is now on SvelteKit, which brings me to like the most up-to-date topic. Right now I'm helping an NGO basically relaunch their website. And this NGO has existed for almost 10 years. They have like 500 sub pages and content collections in directors. It's like events, projects, people, pages, what, you know, all the stuff, like 12 different content collections. And because, first of all, it's a mostly volunteer run organization. So they, again, also don't have like permanent stuff. Right now they have a tech person and this tech person is the only person who knows their way around in directors. And we're going to leave it as it is for now because we're focusing on the website relaunch. But right now we are migrating away from SvelteKit 1 to Astro just for the sake of the stability for the next year or so. Like I think in, I don't know, like when SvelteKit 3 is out, I think if it would have been out, I would have made the decision differently. But right now, especially because I want to basically make sure that they can operate next year on their own and do tiny updates, I'm migrating them to Astro. So I think what I like about both SvelteKit and Astro is the way how pages are structured, how slugs work, file-based routing, it's actually very easy then to translate back and forth as long as your content collection is somewhat stable or like in an organized state. So there is no big loss for them right now. And those pages are mostly either fully static or they just need some tiny dynamic part. Yeah. So, yeah, I mean, right. Astro works and SvelteKit works as well. Those websites where you need server-side rendering or something dynamic, obviously those are a bigger concern. And, yeah, I need to make up my mind yet because this year I built this, like, whole ecosystem for a community survey app. It's like everything. It's like the Superbase with database. Everything is self-hosted also for privacy reasons. And I'm operating the server and I will continue doing so next year. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Again, there's this opportunity. As soon as all the breaking changes arrive in SvelteKit, I can test it out for myself and I can use this production app basically obviously on the development branch to test all of it to figure out what works what doesn And if there is something broken you know I can open an issue or talk to the maintainers or something like this. And this is, I think, also like something where I can just create my own time, you know, take my own time to do this because I can kind of, you know, control the timeline when things have to happen. And I'm not sure how this works in the company unless you are very, very senior and, you know, your your pm or whoever is like trusting you a lot i mean in in a company you you always have to it's all about profit in the end right like it's something costs money you have to earn money so there's some priority of like and even like an upgrade has to have like some cost value to them to be able to get it done yeah and with the work that you're doing with the ngos like yeah it's like you have this free playground, but you also have consumers of the app you have to think of. And like you said, you're putting them on Astro for stability so that they have access to the things that they need when you're not there anymore. Yeah. So any other thoughts and questions and stuff about NGOs? I've run all out of my questions. I can add one because you asked about the upsides of working with NGOs. And there's like this obvious thing is like you are helping usually good people do good things. And if you help them, sometimes they have a very particular idea. Like once we built a website for basically meet up with parliamentarians because they wanted to impact legislation with regards to Telegram. So we had like a hard deadline. And then we launched the website exactly for this event, like in particular for this event. And so they succeeded. this legislation then followed or it happened. Oh, nice. Yeah. Right. And, or sometimes you enable them to do, you know, like even just a simple, this is your own self-hosted newsletter or management thing. And they're like so happy because, you know, they, they promise to their community that this is like privacy first and nothing, you know, is collected by other companies and then they can follow up and basically deliver on this promise. Yeah. And they don't have to pay thousands of dollars for an email marketing solution. This big project, which is called the AfroZensus, which was a large survey of this German-African community, this product, we relaunched it. It's still online. It's been online for three or four years. And this is also a dashboard for the community itself because all those people.

 Many of them have suffered discrimination or they have been, I don't know, have been discriminated by the police on the housing market and whatever. And this data set, the motivation for this dashboard was actually to revalidate the people, the people's experiences. So we are not selling something. We are basically just helping people to understand that what they are living through is not unique to them and it's actually a thing. so there is discrimination in society and they are validated and just this I think actually it uplifted the whole community and then they basically think about bigger plans and bigger ideas and they have this thing that they can use for advocacy, they can go to politicians show them the website and the dashboard and I was like no we are talking about thousands of cases of discrimination just by police forces or something like this so it's very rewarding actually yeah that does sound very fun well I mean not the issues themselves but like rewarding yeah yeah alright so I think we unless anyone has another question then we move on to the controversial parts of the oh no so unpopular opinions do you guys have one who wants to go first? Anthony? About self-hosting? I have one, yes. Let's hear it. It's not that controversial. It's not that controversial. It's just something that was relevant to me today, so I was thinking about it and made people disagree. I'm sure people can argue over it because they argue everything, right? My controversial opinion is that people should store states, not effects. and by this I mean something like if you're if you're dependent if you're wondering about the state of being something being approved the effects of something being approved is that it gets published or promoted or featured whatever there was a lot of discussion with my team today about what it should be called whether it should be called published or published published at the date of when it's published or um the the designer wants to call it featured because she's going to use the featured stuff on the front end um promotion because it might relate to promoting things at some point and all this kind of backshedding about what the name should be it occurred to me that the actual thing here is a state of something being approved or not approved is what we should be storing because everything else is kind of like things that you can do with that thing because it is approved it's just the effects effects of it being approved rather than the actual state of the of the object so we store approved in database or approval and then we store who approved it and then we store a date and everything else is kind of like hanging off that So store states, not effects. Interesting. I thought you were going to talk about effect.ts. No, no, no. TypeScript library. As part of our huge migration to Salt 5, I'm now learning about effects and everything else, and it's all interesting stuff. All right. Does anyone else have an unpopular opinion? Brittany, no? I am trying to think. I'm in a pretty good mood today. Nice. Yeah, I mean, I have my standing unpopular opinion about more people should self-host. By the way. By the way. Do away with all the CDNs. Yeah. So you don't go down when Cloudflare goes down. Have you seen those memes online? about so you've seen that uh xkcd comic thing right where where it's like boxes and stuff are stacked on top of each other and then there's like this small small box at the bottom right there's been a bunch of those memes now yeah lately it's pretty funny i mean it was like github was down and like you couldn't code yesterday with any right github was down as well Yeah, there's a lot of stuff down. Should I self-host Git? Is this what I'm hearing from this? Yeah. Oh, that would be... I mean, it's not that bad. There's like lots of solutions for it. You already self-host Git, right? That's literally what Git is. Sure, but you know what I mean, right? You would have to share it if you wanted to work with anyone. But yeah. Yeah, but you can share it. You just get into the remote into your machine and pull from your Git. Yeah, that seems safe. You are. but you but you're self-hosting by the way but you are um you are the server right and and github is just another server and you just syncing them when you when you pull right let me let me clarify let me clarify should I self a Git repository GUI and hosting solution for my Git repositories that I can reach online from other That sounds like another side project that'll take you five years. What? No, there's like lots of them, like GitLab, Gidea. I used to use one. I used to self-host, by the way, on DreamHost when I was on DreamHost, and I had all the Git repositories on DreamHost, and I was using one there, and I had some kind of UI, and I couldn't remember what it was. It wasn't very good. It wasn't anything like GitHub. I was very excited to not self-host, by the way, onto GitHub. Yeah. Which is free, by the way. GitHub is free. Until we run into limits. Well, yes, but, like, I run the whole of Bianca on GitHub free for literally until like three months ago. I mean, I don't think the limits are that harsh. Well, it's free credits, man. Do you have like popular opinion? I don't know. Like, did anyone have access to Copilot and it just got taken away? I do have access to Copilot. I've not checked because Copilot, I don't find it that useful. So I don't either as like an AI tool, but for like when you're typing something, it would auto-generate it and typically know what I was typing. So it was much faster for me to just hit tab. I have lost that now. And I feel like my productivity has gone down. So I've had free access for three years or however long it's been now. I don't know. Like I was a member of an organization that got free membership. I would get a monthly email from them saying, your membership has been renewed. And then last month, just all of a sudden stripped it away. Interesting. I don't know what organization it was. It never like had any of that in the email. Yeah. So I don't know, like, what do I need to do to get this back? I don't want to pay $100 in a month. You need to pay for it. I don't know that it's worth that, but like I missed that easy productivity. Like I have the, I use the at component syntax in a lot of my components at the bottom that has like the component documentation. And it's basically marked down in a comment in a spell. I need, I need to, a lot of that would just auto generate for me. And so like things like that, it's so helpful for. Yeah. That that kind of it like one of those hidden features that that I always forget about like the documenting the components Oh yeah It so clutch for a design system I going to put it in the show notes And it works so well with our IntelliSense. You hover over the component when you use it, and you can see all of the properties that it has. I have this nice table format I use, and it'll show you basically like a storybook thing that's not interactive, obviously, but you can see everything that you need. Yeah. Yeah. it's nice that'll be my pick I'm sure I've picked that before but I'll put that it's worth picking again add components yeah so Ilya do you have an unpopular opinion yeah I'm not sure if I should like say it out loud or not so I like I like types and I like IntelliSense and all this stuff but I think I'm like with Rich and And I'm not sure if it's most of the core maintainers, but basically I prefer JSDoc over TypeScript for many, many, many reasons. And the main reason is because JSDocs helps me to keep the code readable. So I don't need to think about types when I'm reading the code. I'm reading the code when I'm reading the code. And I think that the way how TypeScript works is not the best solution for providing types or defining types. So I'm a big JSDocs fan. I actually agree with that, but I hate writing JS stock. So I like writing TypeScript better. See, this is why we are paying for Copilot because it then infers all the stuff. Or rather Cursor, I'm using Cursor. Yeah. All right, Picks, Brittany. I have one of those too. Brittany can go first. Mine's already done. Yeah, add component documentation. I don't have to talk about it again. All right, Anthony. Yeah. So my pick this week, shock, horror, and surprise is a technical pick. My pick is Friendly Capture. And the reason it's Friendly Capture is because it is GDPR compliant, European- That's an oxymoron. Based. How do you mean? A Friendly Capture is an oxymoron. Well, no, it's not. Because one of the things I like about it, which I didn't, it's not why I chose it, but I like about it, is it's self-solving. So if you go to the site and you see the capture, it will, whilst you're filling in the sign-up form, whatever, it will solve by doing cryptographic puzzles

 your browser and it will solve that defeat the purpose of the capture no because i am not i am not a bot so if you were a bot if if you were a bot it would not self-solve right this is this is how it works it's the same way as recapture will just not appear if uh if it detects you're not high risk this does something a little bit different maybe you know arguably i don't know how it works exactly but a little bit cleverer in that it will self-solve in your browser because it will know that you're not bot and you're a low risk but there's it's just eradicating any remaining risk right if you if you were using some automation stuff like that i imagine it wouldn't solve yeah i need something like that i know i've talked about the pokemon stuff before but like the recapture is getting insane on pokemon center and you have to like the latest one has been like a bird um a bird house and you have to pick which animal will go in this thing in the picture and it's a bird house so you have to pick the birds but you have to do it over like three times right so you have to pick four birds three times in a row to get through this recapture it's getting crazy like the you need a phd at some point to do captures yeah I've just got a new pick as well because my wife just messaged me she says that because we're trying to book a holiday we're trying to book a first holiday and it's literally been like five years since I've been a real holiday and she's found one the place we want to go they have a plan you can go there like an all-inclusive thing and it comes with a 24-hour butler oh yeah that sounds horrible I want it it sounds amazing it sounds amazing you just call them up and try and watch them And they deliver Kattinger champagne to your room every day. This sounds very expensive. I don't remember. MCL? It's like a cruise line. Oh, yeah. We were supposed to go to Rome, Italy, and leave off and do a Mediterranean cruise right when COVID hit, and it got canceled. But it was going to have a private concierge 24 hours in the room. And I'm like, do you actually? end up using those? Like whenever I'm at a hotel, I've never had the opportunity to, but I probably would I called room service before Similar but more personal I will definitely use the bottle of champagne every day Because you can say to the butler we going to go to the beach take our towels down to the beach for us Yeah, it's so nice. Yeah, we'll see you there. The amount of raising I want on my vacation. No, but why? I don't want to bring my own towels. I have children to carry. We're going to the beach. Take my children. Take my children to the beach. So your second pick is 24-7 Butler? Well, my second pick is this holiday. It sounds great. Where is that? It's in the Maldives. It's a little out of the Maldives. It'd be beautiful. Well, when we book it, it will be. It's still not booked. It's still unmillionari, but we book it for hopefully next month. I'm sure that's there. It's in Hawaii. That's where we're going in January. worry yeah well hawaii was on our list but we i mean we love the maldives so i'm excited to go again especially be the first time the kids have been to like well first time to be on holiday which is shocking really but um definitely first time maldives so i think they'll like it we get we're not gonna have a water villa this time because the thought of having kids in a water villa treading out into the sea is not amazing so we'll get a beach villa a little young for that yeah yeah this all just sounds very expensive we're gonna go kayaking it is very expensive kayaking and snorkeling and all the things exactly a lot of fun paddling that's great we like to flip it on its head kev we don't go it's very expensive might be fun we say it's fun but it'll be expensive right because you know okay i i think there's no better way to spend money than on travel i 100 agree yeah so i i think i would agree as well it's worth the cost It's worth the cost. But where I disagree is, like, I would much rather do a long vacation. Yeah. That is cheaper per day than a short one that is more expensive. But it's not that short. It'll still be two weeks. Which is a good amount. You can do two months. I would joke two months. With two months, we can't really take two children away from their school and everything for two months. It's not really that practical. I know. I have fantasized about just letting them do like virtual school or homeschool or something and just going anywhere. I would do a six month cruise around the world. I would I would just travel like those like those pensioners that are like like the living on cruise ships Yeah it would be a bunch of senior citizens and me but yeah I would do that Sounds great. Although, I don't know how you wouldn't get bored on a cruise ship, though. Like for six months? Well, there's the ports. Yeah, you got to go in the ports. I mean... Oh, I see. So you would take like one of those travel around the world cruise ships. Yeah, where it stops at a bunch of different places. You wouldn't go back and forth between Miami and the Caribbean for six months. No, absolutely not. So how long does it stay in a port for? Usually like a day or two. Like a normal cruise, you only stay for like six to ten hours depending on the port. That is very short. But some of these longer cruises like this that we're talking about, they do stay overnight sometimes. It's still short. You're still spending six months on a ship with a couple of days here. It feels like it's quite weighted in terms of being at sea. It's not enough to experience everything about the place that you're going, but you get a little bit of the culture. And then you kind of figure out, oh, where do I want to go back to and spend more time? That's true. It's like a tasting flight. Yes, it is. It's a flight of... Nice places. Jesus. This was one of the longest tangents we've ever been on, I think. I know, yeah. This is definitely a tangent of a tangent. We can talk about it. Welcome to Svelte Radio, with you. Don't worry, we will chat. We'll chat, Kev, about your long, cheap holidays really soon. Have I been shamed for preferring cheaper holidays that go on for longer? I have been on many cheap holidays and I mean cheap holidays as in self-hosting, by the way no, self-accommodating in hostels and stuff like that, by the way you know why I can go on holiday all the time? it's because I'm self-hosting, by the way self-hosting, by the way, exactly not paying for a sell, $16,000 a year yeah oh, sorry, no, no oh, by the way, did you solve the Google big data, big query thing that you were talking about the other day? Well, first of all, we put a bunch of slots in place. We've got a slot reservation, so we've reduced our bills by controlling them a bit. But I'm going to move the whole lot, I think, to Postgres because I don't think we use BigQuery for what it's designed for. Yeah so I will do Whenever I get 10 seconds I will actually go back to working on that which is my primary thing right now Yeah no totally get it All right Ilya do you have a pick How many picks do I get? You can have as many as you want, but we will be here for hours if you have 10,000 of them. All right. I mean, I probably have 10,000. So like for all Svelte developers, all Svelte developers need to use Svelte render scan from Stanislav and Svelte Inspect Value from iRick. Those are like the two most useful libraries that exist in the Svelte ecosystem. Svelte Inspect. Svelte Inspect Value. Right. This is the one which gives you this pane where you just plug all your state into it and it renders it reactively and if it's an object, it will render the whole object and you never have to add another code position fix details thing to log state. Is it like you install in your library or are they? Yeah, right. The packages, you install them and then you just mount them as a regular component. And Render Scan will render everything. Basically, if you wrap your whatever section or component in Svelte Render Scan, it will render everything that happens within it. It highlights every re-render. Oh, nice. Okay. It's brilliant. That's brilliant. Especially for, you know, effect and stuff like this. Yeah. So those were my, like, two Svelte-related ones. The third one is Sarah Swaydan, you know, she's the accessibility expert. Her course, Practical Accessibility, is on discount right now. And this only happens like once a year or so. And it's a hefty discount of like 30%. So I think everyone should go and buy it. Yeah. That's my three picks for this week. All right. Cool, cool. All right. So I have two picks. So one is you can just do things. And I did just that this week because I've long been talking about having a SvelteKit adapter that renders to a service worker. And I've always been intimidated by the adapter thing. Like, how do you even build one and stuff? But using the power of LLMs, I managed to actually create one, which was very nice. So I did some experimentation and I built an adapter that basically takes your whole SvelteKit application and puts it inside of this service worker.

 So you have server endpoints, you have form actions, and all of that good stuff. Which LLM did you use? So I used Claude Code. Yeah, yeah. I could have guessed. Yeah, that's my go-to. It's just very nice. It is very nice. So I'm going to pick that. And then you reminded me of another one of Stanislav's projects. and it's a it's like a showcase of how to build a progressive progressive web app that kind of feels native and so I met him yesterday here in Stockholm we had like a Svelte lunch that we usually do once a month we just go somewhere and eat lunch a bunch of Svelte people and so he told us about this thing called Sparkle Post which is like a Twitter clone that he made And it's just like this very nice experience that you can install on your phone as like a PWA. And it feels native, which is nice. Then I have one last pick. Sorry. This was my original pick. So I have started reading a series called Hierarchy, which is like a fantasy book series by James Islington. It's very nice. he just released the second book in a trilogy and I can really recommend it if you're into fantasy so that might be my next book yeah it's very good it's very good so Kevin if I understand you correctly that means that you will turn the Svelte Playground in a progressive web app well that was kind of one of the reasons why I wanted to try it or that I picked this thing up again Because I kind of want to be able to do SvelteKit like the Playground right The same kind of experience of not having to install web containers and all this crap that you have to install. It takes forever and it breaks half the time depending on the browser that you're using and stuff. but there's like this one big thing is that you it's hard to tie together like updating the files to actually building it and deploying it because you have you have to actually build it to get it to adapt right so you can't do it in like a dev environment if that makes sense or at least I don't know how to maybe some magician that knows Vite really, really well can figure that out. I don't know. But yeah, so those are my three picks. A lot of picks this week, right? That's crazy. All right. Thank you, Ilja, for joining us. It was a lot of fun. I had no idea about all this NGO stuff. And it's kind of opened another world as to how, like there's this other thing where you produce stuff for NGOs that's very different to how you would build for other people. And of course  I made myself the floating head. Sorry? I made myself the floating head. Interesting. I think we're losing it. My stomach is growling. Yeah, yeah. All right. Thank you, everyone, for listening. We will talk to you next week. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye.