 Here's a quick word from our sponsor. Welcome to the new era of content management with Contentful. Say goodbye to the limitations of traditional content systems and hello to a world where collaboration sparks innovation. With Contentful, you're not just managing content, you're creating content-first, multi-brand experiences across all channels effortlessly. The best part? It requires zero coding. Empower your teams to collaborate and innovate, delivering impactful digital experiences at scale. Contentful's AI-driven platform not only streamlines content creation, but also ensures it aligns perfectly with your brand. Ready for a game-changer? Start with Contentful for free today. Unleash the potential of your digital content and drive your business forward. Learn more at contentful.com. welcome to svelte radio hey everyone welcome to another episode of svelte radio or can we say elixir svelte radio who knows i'm joined by my beautiful co-hosts britney and anthony hello hello hey what what have you been up to i hear britney is working on svgs and she's not happy am i ever happy when i'm working on anything banging my head against the wall i mean i don't know i typically like svgs but i just i can't get javascript to work nicely for me more than the svgs oh the size of svgs yeah i've been working on points of sale systems so potentially not better Yeah, it sounds gnarly. Yeah. I've been ill after Svelte Summit. I got a fever and I've been knocked out for like a week. It's been nice. Just been laying in bed. It's like every year for you, you're cursed or something. I think so, yeah. And double cursed as well. So they were redoing my water pipes in the apartment for 10 weeks, renovating the bathroom. and we tried running the dishwasher So we were meant to move in this Friday and we tried running the dishwasher that so we were meant to move in this friday and uh we uh tried the dishwasher on the friday and then we left to come back on the on saturday to actually move in properly and there was water on the floor so now there's water damage in the environment so i can't move in for another week or two yay but yeah anyway that's that's a funny story you can't wait to get moved in and buying furniture can you well actually no furniture was damaged so no but i mean i mean you famously don't have any furniture and you continue to not have furniture oh you just live in a completely barren barren empty room barren empty apartment i assume maybe i should just have one of those nvidia things behind me yeah just that's kind of like The Swedish style, though, like minimalism, IKEA. I think the difference between minimalism and nothing. Minimal means a little, like nothing. It's all gone, Kevin Day. Sorry, Kevin. I feel like this is trouble today. All right, so why are we here today? We're here. We're joined by a guest, Wout. Hello. Welcome. Hello. How are you today? I'm good. How are you? Oh, we're splendid, except for the story that I just told about not being able to move in. So you're here to talk about Elixir and Svelte because you joined the hackathon earlier this year and submitted a really cool package called LiveSvelte. But before we get into that, maybe you can tell us a bit about yourself. Like, how did you get started in software development and things like that? Yeah, so I got started when I was younger, just as an interest, but professionally, I would say eight years ago. And I started doing Django and Python development. And then I basically did Django and Python until last year, I would say. and also I started doing some Svelte and you have a few first, I think five years ago and then Svelte like around four or three years ago. And then in the last year, last two years, I've been really interested in Elixir. So that sort of where the story is now Cool So Elixir is that to do with Phoenix Live View Because I understand my friend was really into it at one point He also used his spell, actually. That still doesn't help me. What is Phoenix Live View? What is all of that? Well, I think we start with what is Elixir. Yeah. Which one's first? Chicken, egg? I don't know. I would say you start with Erlang first, but maybe we shouldn't. Right, fair enough. So just briefly, Elixir is a language built on top of Erlang and built on top of the Erlang virtual machine, or it's also called Beam. How to describe it? It's a functional language. They say it's a fault tolerance, so you can let it crash, and it can re-heal itself, sort of. And it has great concurrency. So that's basically Elixir. So I would say it's like a more, like language-wise, it's like a more easy Haskell, I would say, like a little bit more easy to understand. So Erlang was built for concurrency, right? It's built by Ericsson, the mobile phone company. Yeah, so originally it was built to connect phone systems together. and it was first like an internal project at Ericsson and then they decided to open source it and then it got a little bit popular. But Erlang itself is not a very nice language to work with. It's just some weird works and Elixir sort of tries to solve that where it's like a little bit more modern in the way it tries to do some things. I think Elixir's revived Erlang a bit because like you said, it was popular at one point. I remember in 2005, we hired an Erlang guy who built this chat system using Erlang. And we said, cool, you need to hire someone else for your team. And he couldn't find a single person in the UK or outside the UK even who knew Erlang. So it was interesting. You should have gone to Sweden. I hear you do more than furniture, right? We don't do furniture at all, let's be fair. Right, ha ha. All right, so Elixir is, it's a backend language, right? You don write frontend stuff obviously because you can only do that in JavaScript Yeah So Elixir itself yes But then in the past recent years a little bit more also information. So Phoenix is sort of the web framework for Elixir. So like Django, Rubio Rails. Or like SvelteKit for Svelte. And Phoenix has this feature or like this concept called live view and with that you can build front ends um so and that's also where lifestyle is built on top of and that's where the name also comes from so live view svelte life life sort of yeah makes sense so so what is live view like do you can you explain how it works sort of yeah so the the way i would explain it is if you if you're familiar with backend templates and how you would just render an HTML template. And after that, you don't really have any connection with a website anymore. You just have it on your browser and you can do API requests and stuff, but that's different. LiveView sort of keeps that connection alive. So it keeps a web socket connection alive. And you can build sort of these templates that are declarative, a little bit like how Svelte does it. So actually there's a lot of overlap there where let's say you click a button, it would send the request back over the WebSocket to live view on the server. And then it would re-render the template, but it would do it sort of in a smart way where it only sends the HTML that has changed and then it gets updated in the client. And so you have this sort of reactivity with the server and you don't really have to use any front end languages. It's pure Elixir, pure live view. And like I said, the template that you're building is very declarative. Like in Svelte, so you have if statements, for loops, that kind of stuff. You don't have to imperatively say, okay, now do this or do that. It's sort of just with message passing, where if you click a button, a message gets passed back, and then the HTML gets updated over the web sockets and then updated in the front end. Sort of the concept. It's definitely interesting. It's a different way of doing interactivity, right? In the Svelte world, we would click a button and you have state on the screen.

 client, but in, in live view, you keep all the state on the server kind of, right? Yeah. So that's, that makes it, uh, I suppose that that would make it easier to, to reason, right? Because you're not copying the state back and forth all the time, uh, like you would in a JavaScript application. Um, I guess the downsides here, you, you need the latency to the server, right? Is, is always there, right? Because every click, you would have to send a message back. And then that would, in turn, send a payload back with the difference of what's going to render, I suppose. Yeah, exactly. So the latency itself is fine. But let's say you lose your connection, then stuff might not update anymore. So that can be sometimes an issue. But in practice, it's actually very nice to work with and very responsive. But that's a big difference to something like SvelteKit. You don't have that local state. You can have your SvelteKit application completely local and things sort of still work and you can interact with things, but that's not the case with LiveView. All right, cool. So you've been working on, well, for the hackathon, you worked on this live Svelte thing. Maybe you can talk a bit about, like, what inspired you to use Svelte? Like, why would you... Do you need Svelte in an Elixir app? Let's start there, without Phoenix. Like, why would you want a front-end framework for when you're working in Elixir? Yeah, so there's many cases where you want some JavaScript interaction. And there are ways to do that in LiveView and in Phoenix. so they have this concept of hooks where it's not the same as like in the frontend world hooks but it's just a way to hook into the lifecycle functions of of live view on the frontend so you have your mounts and you have your updates and you have your destroys so whenever the mount is just obvious but then the update is whenever the live view changes so whenever your state in live view changes and these hooks they very I mean they not very front modernized I would say So if you working with Svelte and then you going back to hooks you feel like you lost a little bit of functionality there where you're really writing, you're purely writing JavaScript and you can do some stuff with it, but it's more hard to import a package or just have a declarative template that does something like you click a button and it just does something and then it just works. You don't have to, like with hooks, you would have to do a little bit of jQuery kind of behavior, I would say. Right. And that didn't feel right to me. So because I'm coming from like a Svelte, some Svelte experience, and then I had this, I was like, oh man, this is like, it's so good because you're so close to the server and you have all this, like you don't really have to make an API. That's a big thing. you can just call your database and you can make your API you can make it in Alexa and you can just make the functions and everything but you don't have to have this REST API or this which you can do of course there's ways to do it and it's very easy but like it's a very nice way to work so I kind of wanted both worlds together and that's where I found this prototype by Ryan Cook and he He did it in a little bit of a different way, but the concept is the same, where you have these components, and these are Svelte components, and you insert them into your LiveView. And they work sort of seamlessly with Svelte and LiveView together. I'll talk a bit about that later. But that's sort of where the idea came from, like that frustration of, I have to go back a little bit to what is old, and I want to have the best of both worlds. Yeah, so you want the developer experience of writing declaratively all the time rather than just most of the time. Yeah. All right. So this LiveSvelte thing, how does it work? Or does that make sense to ask now? Or are there other parts in between that we should explore? We're all pretty Elixir noobish here. Let's just say what it does. And then maybe after that, we can do it. Because it's still not very clear. Well, for me it's clear, but I think that thing is not clear. So just imagine that your Svelte so you have your Svelte components and you can have multiple components and they sort of your main components And your export props of your main Svelte components are server So whenever something changes on the server then your export prop would also change, which is something we're used to in Svelte if you're having a child component and you're just making, you're updating it that way and that's something you're used to, but you're not used to it being server-reactive. with, you're not being used to it being reactive with the server. And so these things, they can be influenced from other users, for example. So like, let's say you have one user doing something that changes in the database and then you have an event. And in Alexa, it's all relatively easy to do this kind of stuff. And then your Svelte component would update automatically. And what you can do with that is also that you can combine these states together so you can have local state and server side state. So since you're in a Svelte environment, you can use your local variables like how you would use Svelte in a normal way. And you can use these exported server variables. And so you can create this really cool, interactive, very easy to understand features where you don't really have to think about, okay, now I need to update something on the server. So I need to have an API that does something. And the only thing you have to do is send an event with maybe some data attached to it, and it's optional, and LiveView takes care of the rest. And your server, your exported server, they would update automatically. So you would not, for example, like let's say you have a number, you would not mutate that number in the client. you would actually send an event. That event gets sent to LiveView and LiveView updates the number and the number automatically updates in the client. So you would have this sort of circle where you're sending events this way to the server and your props gets updated automatically on the other side. So the thing that it's doing. That's cool. So it binds together like the LiveView diffing thing and Svelte as a template language. That's pretty cool. So I have an idea here. So does it mean like so LiveView does that make it easy to build kind of these what would you call them multiplayer experiences Like say for example Google Docs Is that something that you could build using this pretty easily Exactly Yeah Those kinds of things So LiveView by itself's default is just per user, per connection. But you can sort of bind the LiveViews together. You can subscribe to events, and then they can be updated in each LiveView. so you can have these sort of multiplayer experiences pretty easily. Interesting. Because we're thinking about doing a VR meetup. So we're going to use like a, so I don't know if you've heard of Threlt. It's like the, I always mix these up. Is it 3.js or is it D3? What's it called? 3.js. I think 3D or D3 is the, is the, yeah. So yeah, I always mix these up and Grisha always pings me afterwards and he's like, oh, that's not the one. It's the other one. Anyway, so there's, they have this new XR module for, for working in AR and VR. So I was planning on, maybe we can build like a virtual kind of 3D environment where people can walk around. And then I guess it would make sense to use something like Live View there to sort of like bind everyone's position in the room together. And I was, I don't know. It's 3DS. Okay. Yeah, it's 3DS. It's hard to, it's hard to keep them apart. Yeah, I don't know. I think they're, aren't they very similar technologies too? not really because one is about like working with uh graphs and stuff or motion i don't remember me well maybe you know it's kind of like blowing my brain i'm trying to think of like how you might do that in spelt kit and then i was kind of thinking like is this kind of like streaming but streaming is about data going across the wire and i'm like all of this like this is why i stick to front end. That's why I like my bubble. That's kind of the thing, though, with if you use something like LiveView, I mean, you would have to still create the back end for it, but you would at least get the multiplayer part automatically, sort of.

 So that's interesting. I know there's a project called Party Town. I think it's called. Yeah, Party Kit. Party Kit. Party Town is the one that you put into offload your third-party services from the browser. So you put them onto a different... Yeah, it's Party Kit. I'm thinking about Party Kit. So that's completely about doing multiplayer experiences. But I think it's like a... That's a company that runs that. And so it would be more fun to build it myself or ourselves, I guess, depending on who. PartyKit is Sunil Pai's company, right? Yep. Yeah. I know what you're talking about. Anyway. Yeah. So that was just like an interesting, because I hadn't thought about, I was planning on using PartyKit for that multiplayer bit, but maybe I should actually start learning Elixir because I've been wanting to learn Elixir for years. Like it's been very enticing to every time I see a video or talk about it, I get very excited and I want to learn it. So maybe this will be the thing that actually makes me jump in and actually learn it. We'll see. There's too many things like that in our world where you just want to learn it and there's not enough time in the day. And I just saw also a bit of a tangent, but do you guys know about Elm? It's like the functional. I've heard of Elm. functional programming language for the web. It compiles to JavaScript. But there's a new one called Rocklang, I think, that's supposed to be, I guess, a successor of sorts. I don't know. We'll see. I'm good with that. Interesting. There's a whole Rust-like thing. People wanted to learn Rust. Oh, yeah, there's Rust as well. I'm good. I'm good. I have enough trouble with JavaScript. I don't need another language. Yeah, yeah. I always feel like I tried using Elm for a bit and it was just too much boilerplate for me. I found it to be pretty tough to work in, but that's probably on me. But yeah, anyway, so LivesVault, can you just replace the, I guess, the template parts of Phoenix using that? Yeah so that a really nice thing So because these templates they very similar in functionality actually So Svelte is very declarative And then these LiveView templates are very declarative And so it's not imperative where you have to say, do this, do that. It's just you write it down like in if statements and for loops, basically. And so you can, in Elixir or in Phoenix, you also have this component concept, just like in Svelte, basically, where you can import Svelte, you can import Elixir code and that kind of stuff. And LiveSvelte is basically a component. You would just import the components that replaces some part of your LiveView. And the code would not look so different from it. And so, of course, the syntax is different, but the general structure is very similar. So, yeah, that's the way I would use it. So you have maybe some piece of code that you want a little bit of more client-side interaction, and you remove it and you replace with the components, and you copy over the template code, and you change the syntax. And that's basically it. That's pretty nice. Yeah. I guess Svelte being just sort of HTML, it makes it pretty simple to just copy it over. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. So I had a brief look at the library, and I saw... So the way it looks like in LiveSwelt that you push events up is you call a function. You get like a prop called push event. Is that right? Something like that? Yes. On the client? Yeah. So there are two ways to do it. So you have push events, which is also an exported prop. or maybe now it's like something you just import. And this is just a function you can call with, it should have a message name. So it can be increased number. If you have a number, that's a very simple example. And then you can also send some data along with it optionally. You don't have to, but you can. And then that sends the message over the web socket. And then in Elixir, you have to capture it. So you have basically a function that captures certain events. and then you can do whatever you want with it. So then you're in your backend language and you can create something in the database or update the number or whatever you want And so that one way of doing it So you can do it with a function You can just call it function Or you have these attributes you can attach to HTML So you have like PhoenixClick, for example. So phx-click. And you add it to your button. And you assign it the message name or the message that you want to send. And you can also add values to that. So you have Phoenix value. And so if you then click that button, it also works. It's the same thing. Oh, interesting. Yeah. So you don't have to use the sort of the imperative way of calling a function to do something. You can just say what it should do inside HTML itself. And that's also a nice thing. You can just copy over in LiveView this code and do this file component and it would still work. It's just the same. Nice. And so looking at the features here, you have support for Tailwind out of the box, I think. That's great if you're a Tailwind user. I am nowadays. So I didn't used to be, famously. But we all get there in the end, I think. Yeah. But then there's also, so I'm looking at the features here, and there's something called DeadView. I guess that would make way more sense for someone that knows how Phoenix LiveView works. So is that what you were talking about earlier when you lose the connection? Not specifically. So because you have LiveFuse, DeadFuse is just another name for a static template. Oh, okay. Yeah. So in Ruby or Rails or something, you have just templates that you send. So you can also just have these components, these lifestyle components inside your static templates because it is just a Phoenix component. And Phoenix components are supported across LiveView and DeadViews. So that's just what a DeadView is. But yeah, it's just a fancy name for just a static template. Yeah. What about like, there's something called LiveJSON? What is that? Yes So that is a little bit more specific to because so the problem is that if you have a lot of data and you always updating like let say you making a big game with a lot of data Like there a board and there stuff going on And every time that the game updates, then you would have to send the entire game state across the website by default. And live JSON is a way to make a diff of your previous game state and your new game state and just send over the diff. And so you have these really small messages that you will be sending over instead of the entire game state every single time. So live JSON is something that is in the Elixir community that you can, it's another package basically, and you can integrate with it. That's really cool. I did not know that was a thing. So that makes it easier to, that makes it even easier probably to make like a multiplayer thing. So I assume I could just store like the state of the, I don't know, the conference, the virtual conference room on the server and then just send diffs back and forth of the actual state. Exactly. And then like, let's say, because you were talking about VR, every time you have an update, like a change in position of the user, you would send a message with that position updates. and you can do that a lot. You can send a lot of messages back and forth. And then you would have the entire state on the server and you can do whatever you want with it. And then you can just send the small divs across the wire. That's great. That's awesome. I'm getting more and more excited. Once you go a little bit into Alexa, you'll definitely be like, oh, wow, these concepts are really, really cool. Like, it's like, oh, yeah, wow, this is really, because it's very different from other backends that you might have used in the past. It's very, like, because it builds on top of the Beam, which is like the Erlang virtual machine, it has a lot of functionality that you wouldn't otherwise get with a normal backend. Yeah. So, yeah, there are a lot of cool concepts like that. And I assume, so since they built it for like communications, this would also be like a perfect use case for it? Yeah, originally it's just connecting telephones together, but then you realize the internet is basically that.

 but times a hundred. It's just sending data across different things. So it suits very well for these backend purposes. Here's a quick word from our sponsor. Welcome to the new era of content management with Contentful. Say goodbye to the limitations of traditional content systems and hello to a world where collaboration sparks innovation. With Contentful, you're not just managing content, You're creating content-first, multi-brand experiences across all channels effortlessly. The best part? It requires zero coding. Empower your teams to collaborate and innovate, delivering impactful digital experiences at scale. Contentful's AI-driven platform not only streamlines content creation, but also ensures it aligns perfectly with your brand. Ready for a game-changer? Start with Contentful for free today. Unleash the potential of your digital content and drive your business forward. Learn more at contentful.com. So when it comes to Svelte, I don't know if you've heard about the recent Svelte 5 Alpha, if you've had time to check it out. But I was thinking, like, have you looked into upgrading LiveSvelte to Svelte 5? Maybe it's already there. I don't know. Not yet, but a community member that was using the package did it, and they said it was not so difficult, but I haven't looked at it myself. Right. The one thing that might be very cool that's currently a little bit weird, so there's functionality for slot support. so you can have elixir code inside your components and it would be used in your Svelte components. And so that currently works, but it's not perfect because we're sort of hacking the Svelte codes and updating the slot, and sometimes it breaks. So I put it as sort of an experimental feature. But with Svelte 5, you have these snippets, and I feel these snippets they're just props and props work so if you can just pass a snippet it might be that it just works very well and you can have these like elixir in Svelte and then maybe even Svelte in Elixir Yeah. And then just go all the way down? Yeah. Exactly, because now the main problem is once you have your Svelte components, you can't really easily go back to Elixir if you want to. You can't just like, oh, now I want to have live your stuff again. I don't want to mess with Svelte. It's not so easy, but if you have a slot, then you can just say, okay, everything that goes in here is just Elixir code and just HTML basically. So it looks like it might work, but I still have to test it out and see if that's the case. I think Threlts is doing a lot of stuff where they're kind of hacking the Svelte code too and using things that they're going to have to refactor. But I've been thinking about slots a lot and with the new snippets thing, the only thing I'm a little concerned about is how do you do something ambiguous? You don't know what is going to go into that snippet. How would you do that? Like in a design system, there's a lot of times where I just want an empty slot. So people can put whatever they want there. How do I do that in this new system? So I think there's a, I'm pretty sure there's a default thing that you can specify. I don't remember the syntax off the top of my head. maybe it's on the preview site yeah a lot of times I was looking at it it looks like a function like you pass it arguments and then it's like you put in the markup you want but I don't know the markup I don't know what I'm going to want to put there I guess I could put a div I don't want to do that so so that will I think the default is called children oh yeah it's like very reactive that's right I do remember seeing that. Okay. Maybe I know there is a way. I just haven't really looked at it yet, but I figured there was a way. We're not even sure the syntax is properly final yet, right? And then is there still a way to do like the Svelte colon element? I think so. They didn't do away with that. No, no. Just the complicated parts of the slot API. Okay. Because that was pretty confusing, like the let colon something. Yeah having to do like declare the let within the component just to use it that was confusing There were lots of things that are confusing The reactivity blocks those are confusing A lot of things they doing I agree with I was just concerned. Some of the things that I'm using now, I'm concerned, are going to go away. And then upgrading those incrementally even seems like a lot of work. I think you'll like it, Mikey, because, you know, it'll get simpler overall, I think. Yeah, I think it will. And at least it's incremental too. You have multiple versions to do it. Yeah, exactly. You could just upgrade on your own pace. In Rich's own words, like three to four was difficult because of the removal of CJS. Four to five should be a very easy upgrade and then you can take your time on adding in the features. Yeah, I mean, I'm already running the Svelte Summit website on Svelte 5. But yellow. You are on a cutting-edge technology, though. Yeah, I mean, I have to, right? I have to. I actually broke the site when I – There was something I did that – Yeah, because it stopped updating, like, the variables. I'm sure I did something wrong. Well, I'm sure there's going to be some things with the adapters too that they're going to run into because of the platforms. The platforms are going to have issues with some of this stuff. And they're going to have to work through some of the bugs on those ends. Yeah. I mean, I haven't had any issues with the Vercel one. Well, you're on Vercel and they work at Vercel. You're not going to have issues there probably. Yeah, but I mean like the Node one. You're going to have issues probably on Netlify and on Cloudflare and on AWS. us yeah yeah you might be right i'm not trying to rant right now but i have issues on netlify with storybook all the time right and netlify and storybook work together and every time i build a spelt kit storybook site it breaks and i have to go to storybook my seniors and be like why is this happening and we have to look at something and it's like because of pnpm workspaces usually because Netlify does not have a great support for them still. That's odd. Maybe they should fix that Speaking of storybook This is apparently unpopular opinions already and i maybe maybe this can be your unpopular opinion but yeah uh i had a question like because that i think storybook brings up an interesting uh question like in in the elixir world like are are you familiar with storybook first off yeah yeah so are there similar things in the Elixir world, like where you can kind of preview stuff like that? Maybe you don't really work in a similar kind of way. I don't think there's exactly something like Storybook, but there is a concept of components, like I said, so you can have bottom components and whatever, and you can make sort of your own kind of version of Storybook, I guess, but it's not as easy to use a storybook, I think. I might be wrong because there might be a package that I just don't know about. Okay, cool. What kind of other things are there that make Elixir exciting? Do you have something to push me over the edge to start using it? Which feature should I... I don't know. Anything that's cool. I guess the Enix Live View is like the really cool one, maybe. I don't know. Yeah, that's a really cool one. Another one is, so everything in Erlang runs in a process. And this is not an OS process. This is an Erlang process, and it's very lightweight. So the famous example that people always bring up is WhatsApp was using Erlang. and maybe they're still doing it. But on one machine, you could run two million processes and each process can be a WebSocket connection, for example. So one user, basically. It can be one user that is connected and that is sending some data. And this concept of process is really powerful because you can run all your code. All your code is by default in process, but if a process crashes, it's not a big deal. So let's say in another language, you have in another backend language you have, maybe you're using threads or whatever. But if it caches, it can be a big deal. You have to think about what's going on and you have to say, okay, if it caches and I've

 to make sure that I clean up everything correctly. In Erlang or in Elixir, that's not the case. You just let it crash. And in case that you need to process again, like let's say you have a WebSocket connection that needs to be there all the time, and for some reason it's disconnected, it would automatically reconnect. So they have this concept of supervisors and stuff which pick up these processes and boot them up again. and then you can also think about like you can go inside the process so it's very observable also and you can see what it's doing and how much data it's using and these kind of things are not so difficult to do so that's I think that's already like a really big thing and then you can also connect these virtual machines together so you can have like it's just really cool in my opinion it does sound very cool I immediately thought about like when you said like you can just let it crash. You cannot do that with Node, right? No, no, no, no, no. You have to do try catches everywhere and like figure out, make sure it doesn't end up somewhere that crashes the whole application. All right, that's pretty cool. I also heard like Discord uses Elixir with pretty great success. If you look at Discord. I thought it used Electron. Yeah, so that would be for the front end. So I think they use React and Electron for the front end, and then for the back end, it's Elixir, I think, at some point at least. Yeah, I think I looked it up recently, and it's, I think, mostly Elixir for Discord. And it is the perfect kind of technology for that kind of stuff. I mean, WhatsApp was built with Elixir, or like with Erlang. And it's really for any kind of multiplayer kind of thing, where chat is ultimately a multiplayer kind of thing. It's perfect. Yeah. Cool. All right. Unless we have other questions. Brittany, do you have any more questions? Or if there's something that we missed about LiveSvelte that you want to talk about, Wout? Not really. I think we've touched on most things. Cool. All right. Then we can move on to unpopular opinions. Maybe Brittany wants to keep going on our PMPM rant I just I want like better PMPM support across the board I ran into it on Gitpod and I know Willow works there Ghost one of our other ambassadors And she said that they support PMPM. And yet I tried to run PMPM in a PMPM workspace on it and got errors. and Ben had a PR up in like five minutes of me putting it in because he's ridiculous. But it's just like I feel like a lot of people use PMPM at this point and we should just support it and not have to worry about these weird bugs. Should just switch to bun. Just skip all of the package managers. Just use bun. No, I'm kidding. I don't know. All right. I don't have an unpopular opinion this week. Wout, you mentioned you might have one? Yeah, maybe I don't like TypeScript as much as other people. That would be an unpopular opinion to have. Yeah, yeah. But I think it's definitely a net positive TypeScript, so I use it in my project. But sometimes it's a little bit when you just have too many types in JavaScript. And you have to really learn a lot about these types. And yeah, so it's sometimes a pain. But I do use it, and it's a net positive. But I think maybe JavaScript could use a little bit more of the functional ideas, I think. I think that would improve the language or the error rate of your code. It would reduce a lot of bugs. I think a lot of the mutability in JavaScript is a problem. If you have just immutability by default, those kinds of things I think are more interesting than adding types. I guess there are some ways to work functionally in TypeScript, I guess, or JavaScript, right? there's Ramda and other kinds of libraries, but it's, it's always like they, they're kind of tacked on. So it never, it never feels like it's, it's as smooth as you want it to be. Kind of. The issue is always like oh you using this library then why why are you doing that of having it default immutable I think that should be the case I mean it not you can just say oh yeah let's make JavaScript immutable. But I think these kinds of things, like, for example, Elm, you brought up earlier. I haven't used Elm, but the ideas that that language has is way more interesting than TypeScript to me. Right, yeah. Yeah, same with Rock. If you've looked at that, I think that seems nicer than Elm to me. But yeah. All right, cool. Picks? Who wants to go first? I'll say my pick. Yeah. So if you want to get into Elixir and you just want to spend 30 or maybe an hour on it, watch The Soul of Erlang. it's by I don't know how to pronounce his name but Sacha Juric I think his name is and it is just the perfect intro to Elixir and Erlang and what it can do and it's sort of the same reaction when I was first getting into Svelte I watched Rethinking Reactivity by Rich Harris and that really blew me away it's such a good talk and I felt the same with the soul of Erlang It just shows you, okay, these kind of ideas are very interesting, and maybe that's the way back in languages, they should go in that direction. So definitely watch that. Yep. I think you're muted, Brittany. I wasn't saying anything important. Oh, oh. All right, do you want to go next with your pick? Sure. I guess I'm going to pick Loki. I do another podcast. I don't think I picked it on this podcast. I picked it on the other podcast, right? The TV show? We watched. Huh? The TV show? Yes, the TV show, Loki. We watched the second season. And it's been so long since a lot of these COVID shows have been on that I didn't remember them. and we watched the whole first episode without realizing i mean we remembered bits and pieces of it but we were like where are we at in this show and then we kind of figured out that we'd watched the first season and we were supposed to be in the second season and then we got through the second season and it was really really good so if you seen it go back watch the second season it really good but it took me a minute because it has been so long since it been on yeah yeah i i watched it as well pretty good so i'm also going to pick a tv show it's a british show called the lacerous project it's about time traveling and stuff it's pretty uh so there it's It's about this shadowy government group or something that works behind the scenes to stop cataclysmic events in the world, to save the world, basically. It's pretty good. And they just released the second season. So I've been binge watching that this last week. This sounds like someone told me about this show that's like AI, but they use it as like trying to find the Holy Grail. And they use it as like, is it faith or AI can guide your life like faith can guide your life? And it kind of sounds like that kind of show. I think I would really like. I mean, that sounds interesting as well. Do you remember what it was called? I don't. I'll have to ask. What was that show? The Lazarus Project is yours? Yep. Two seasons, I think. What is that on? I don't know. HBO, maybe? Okay. I don't know. We need to do show notes and actually put these in show notes. I mean, I do. I actually do that. Oh, you do. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. They do show up in the show notes. Okay. I think that's it for the show. Wout, maybe you can tell people where they can find you. Yeah, I would say go to my website, wout.space. So W-O-U-T dot space. Space is a T-L-E. I'm not really active on Twitter, but you can find my Twitter there also. and if you're looking for a freelancer in Svelte or Elixir, Django, Python, definitely hit me up. So. Yeah. Awesome. Cool. Thanks for joining us on the podcast. It was a pleasure. I'm very, very interested in Elixir. So this was a lot of fun for me, even though I don't know that much about Elixir. And

 of course, thank you to all of the listeners. We will see you again next week. Bye. Hey, it's Kavir. If you like the show, please drop a review on your favorite podcast player. It would help out a lot. Thanks.