 Svelte Radio podcast. This week we have a special guest here, but first let's introduce ourselves. So I'm Kevin. I run a site called Svelte School, which has a number of different Svelte tutorials pretty much. Hey everyone, this is Sean. I have not been doing a lot of Svelte recently just because I've been trying to pay more, pay down my debt on the AWS side of things. I'm still kind of ramping up on AWS stuff. Right now, we're in the middle of a conference that we're hosting for ourselves called Amplify Days. So that should be out if anyone's interested in sort of being full stack front end type person. Cool. Hi, I'm Anthony. I'm a spelt maintainer. I'm the CTO of Bionk, which is a booking platform for activity providers. And I'm also heavily involved in various open source-y things at the moment. Cool. And then for today, we have a special guest. Would you like to introduce yourself? Sure. I'm Rich. I do graphics at the New York Times. I wrote the first version of Svelte, and then I tricked a bunch of people into helping me maintain it. That's great. Awesome. So this is like an unusual episode, right? Because obviously, we have a special guest here um i guess so we have we have some topics pre-prepared we tweeted out some some um you know questions about you know what people want to know uh but i guess i guess just to like kind of kick things off you know we should probably talk about the big front end masters workshop that that was like maybe three weeks ago four weeks ago um yeah still a deal um and uh i mean we we and i think all of us like sat through the the live stream and that was a marathon run by uh by rich i just want to ask rich like how do you feel about that oh god it it was one of the hardest things i've ever done honestly um i i've never done a workshop before um i i went into it a little bit wet behind the ears and i uh i over prepared in all the wrong ways I didn't really know what I was doing and so I it turns out I prepared about three days worth of material because I was panicking that I wouldn be able to fill a full day of teaching people about style So it like okay the first 45 minutes we going to go through the tutorial and then we going to spend the morning building a little app and then in the afternoon, we're going to build a big Sapper app with progressive enhancement and it's going to talk to APIs and it's going to have a database and authentication and all of this stuff. And at about four o'clock in the afternoon, I'm less than halfway through, and I'm like, oh God, no, I've done this horribly wrong. but I trust the front-end masters people to edit it into something usable because they know what they're doing. So that should be coming out pretty soon, I think. What's also interesting is that the stuff you used for it, for the past, was pretty green to you as well. And so it was almost you learning all these different technologies that had come out and then just building apps in them and teaching to build apps in them, which is impressive. It's true. I owe you a debt of gratitude for the recommendations that you provided when I showed up in in our chat one day and said what would you use if you were going to teach people how to do authentication and this that and the other so yeah we use auth well I used auth zero and fauna and a couple of other things deployed on the cell but then we actually never got to that part of the workshop so that's probably going to form like an intermediate svelte workshop at some point in the future going through all of that stuff is that something they're they're interested in it's something that we've sort of talked about informally no commitments yet but right yeah but yeah at some point i i think the idea is that we're going to get a saper to a 1.0 maybe we'll talk about that at some point during this podcast i don't know um and then there'll be perhaps be an appetite for like more training materials around saper because at the moment the like the documentation around saper isn't quite as comprehensive as it is for salt and so you know there's a bit of a gap for useful training materials there probably well it sounds like you'll be back we have separate on the list um round about there um but no i think i think it's a i think it was a great event i think it's it's kind of a coming of age for svelte it's kind of how i i um i guess like a rite of passage uh for all front-end frameworks that their creators say something about it on Frontend Masters. Mark has always said that he very picky about who he lets on as instructors So this was at least like probably a a good entry point for a lot of people um for for people who are like thinking about svelte and uh you know they want to see a lot of like training out there even though like a lot of this actually you could kind of like figure it out yourself on the site but it's good to have a workshop that that just kind of goes through it yeah i think actually that that's the part that i didn't really appreciate going into it was like i'm there thinking that you know i've got to provide some some real value here i'm being invited on front and masters that that's like that's like a big deal so i've got to prepare all this material but actually what people care about is um is just sort of being guided through the existing training material and coming out at the back of that feeling confident that they've understood it yeah and having the chance to ask you questions as well yeah exactly which is also nice I think it really shows like how how good the tutorial actually is on the website I actually discovered a couple of times as I was going through that tutorial in the workshop that some of the steps had changed since I last looked at the tutorial and so I get to the next stage like with with an idea in my head about what I was going to say and then it's oh oh i don't remember this uh so that was that was fun it was a bit seat in the pants this is this is good though this is this is interesting because it's quite hard to build a community of developers who will continue your work with you um i think it's one of the hardest things about open source projects a lot of them end up with a single maintainer or the original author um but you've actually got this bunch of people contributing which is which is impressive it's something that i'm extremely happy about and grateful for because like it's no big secret that i haven't been very heavily involved in open source this year for a variety of reasons and the this if that had happened like a year or two ago the svelte project would have died in its crib but now there's a very healthy team of people that i i have i have no qualms about delegating all of the authority that i may have once had to the the people in the core team which isn't to say that like i don't want to still be very heavily involved in the project i do i'm itching to get back into it but it makes me feel very good about the health of the project yeah absolutely um we should we should talk briefly about that because i never got that onto the agenda but i think something that i was very keen about from basically the the beginning was you know in order to get to the next level I think it had to evolve in terms of its governance And I think now there's like this maintainer's call and there's some form of regular cadence around reviews and sort of big ticket items that may actually need, you know, more than a day's work of just pushing through. How's that changed? And what's your thinking around that? uh well so the fact that we had the first ever maintainers call uh when was it a few weeks ago i guess we're due for a new one very soon um that that's that's a real milestone i think that was actually the first time that we'd all got on a video chat together and talked about stuff and um we spent a long time talking about um slots because tanley how has done a lot of work around fixing some of the rough edges around slots. And then we talked about a few other things, but a lot of it was sort of meta procedural stuff about how we as a team organize ourselves in order to make some of these big ticket items happen and not just constantly get buffeted around by the GitHub issue noise. And I think we came up with some pretty good processes around that. I'm pretty optimistic. awesome awesome yeah i mean i think i think so the other thing that i that svelte society probably can do can do a bigger part of is kind of the marketing of svelte um you know i i don't even know how many minor releases that svelte has had but uh some like every every minor release is is a is a marketing event potentially uh which used to be a big bigger deal for react like oh it's like a new version like everyone you know it's an event for people to learn about what's been added and what's what's changed um but we don't necessarily have that we just have the major version uh and that's that's like a meat here meatier thing um and sometimes we might we might want to you know do more blogging or you know just releases yeah you're not wrong yeah i mean the problem with all of this is that it takes time, right? It does. It does. And everyone is busy. So. Sure. It is what it is. But we are focusing our energies on the big thing. Should we talk about TypeScript? We should. Yeah. So by the time people hear this, we will have announced

 whatever we're going to announce. I actually, I've seen the PR. I haven't actually read it. And I think anyone who's in any way involved with Svelte has probably got an inkling of what it is. But just, you know, for official reasons, Rich, tell us, tell us what it is. Svelte supports TypeScript. Oh my, amazing, amazing. Wait, wait, wait, wait. I got to break up the soundboard for this right now. did you actually get a soundboard well no i just have to okay okay all right what does that mean uh so it means that you can write type scripts inside your svelte components and you'll get type checking inside your script so like caveat right now um this is uh mostly geared towards uh vs code users because that's where the um that's the main svelte extension is a vs code extension and um it's built on top of a language server which means that it's technically editor agnostic but i think pretty much all of us are vs code users and a lot of our users are vs code users so that's where a lot of the initial energy has been focused so if you're writing typescript inside a script block of a svelte component i think you need to have like lang equals typescript or is it lang equals ts either works it other works um then you'll get all the usual type checking and auto completion and all of that stuff and uh you'll also get auto completion and intellisense inside your markup which is very cool and if you import a sculpt component into a typescript component um which i mean typically you would only do that once in an app at the top level you'd import app from app.svelte and then instantiate it but you'll get the type checking um on that as well because the uh your typescript files now understand the svelte component api it's also worth noting that um none of the core maintainers are particularly large typescript users i know that svelte itself is written in typescript but we don't tend to write a lot of front-end stuff in typescript so we have to really give massive props to water here who's kind of jumped on and and sort of spearheaded this whole process and and the community around that dumby dum um and i going to call people screen names because i can remember everyone names but these people have produced an amazing amount of stuff to get TypeScript into a production state So really impressive. So if you want to listen to more about TypeScript support, we did a podcast episode on this a couple of episodes back with both Orda and Simon on, so you can listen to that. yeah um i you know my my personal sort of uh perspective on that is that it's actually more than a typescript um support it's it's a language server that happens to support typescript um so it so it's this work is actually far bigger than near typescript i mean that's that's a big deal but i think maybe people don't appreciate how much work goes into general language support because you know, Svelte is a language and Rich has a blog post on that. And essentially this is an extension that gives you a better developer experience around that language, whether it's like checking the CSS class names, you know, like I, I saw this, I saw John Cooperman on Twitter say that he like lost two hours because the, he had like a mismatched CSS class name versus the one he actually used. And that just doesn't happen in Svelte. And you might, and with the, with the language server, you get advanced warning. whether or not you use TypeScript. And I think that's something that Orda is trying to push as well, and that the fact that TypeScript tooling benefits you whether or not you actually use TypeScript. And so I think even people who don't necessarily care about TypeScript but care about developer experience may find this work useful. That's kind of why it's called language tools, I guess. Yeah, and I think also it's worth noting that the way that it's been done, because it is via sort of preprocess, that's a that is a an intentional decision that means that you don't need to have um you know a rewrite of svelte to support typescript it's literally like types uh svelte is still kind of single language agnostic of any any other language and full typescript support can just be there as a result of having pre-processes so it's uh it's good that's all i gotta say that's good yeah i've summarize that really I've got to eat humble pie a little bit because I've been very skeptical about the pre-process API generally like we sort of added it against me say it like so many people were saying we got to have a CSS support and this that and the other and i was always very skeptical because like that leads to fragmentation and it like adds all of these extra moving parts but the fact that it's enabled auto and that team to do this uh is uh it just completely proves me wrong about everything that i've ever said about pre-processing it's great sometimes rich is wrong i'm frequently wrong um i mean i'm still i'm still sympathetic i'm still sympathetic to the original view that like svelte is should stick as closely the html as possible and every time we make one of these decisions we step further away from the light um but i think we've always tried to kind of pitch svelte as like a superset of html and i think maybe that's permissible under that model. I mean, yeah, it's still totally valid, right? That's it. It's still totally valid. The preprocessor allows you to put stuff that isn't necessarily valid in there, but the core is you can always write Svelte component with basically no tooling at all. So it's... I mean, it's actually kind of funny. When I first started writing in Svelte, I immediately went for Sass, for example, because I thought, oh, I need this. I always need this. But then nowadays, I'm finding myself just writing plain CSS pretty much. And it's like that with a lot of things. I just go back to the basics. I rarely really use the... well so so one feature is is the main thing i use which is nesting um css still doesn't yeah right so yeah that's so i i find so i used to use sass a lot and i was quite keen on it but then when i when it was possible for me to write styles that were scoped to a component like i i just no longer needed to use nesting because nesting is a thing that i primarily used as a namespacing mechanism and you don't need namespacing inside a component so it's that and it was variables but we have css uh custom properties now so like the two main reasons that i ever wanted to use sass in the past uh are no longer applicable yeah um and and i think that there's probably a lot of people who are sort of using this stuff out of muscle memory without stopping to think if it's still actually necessary well i mean so for me it's actually code organization like i can collapse an entire block and i don have to worry about that block of css but i can still you know view the others how big are your components right I don know like if you if you just you know that adds up your components they need more focus this is a this is a design pattern problem I will say so I think I think like the it's a very nice thing to have both Tailwind and Svelte together so Tailwind for the stuff that it normally handles and then Svelte scope styles for the stuff that it doesn't handle. That seems to keep my custom CSS down by quite a bit. So that's really nice. Cool. Great. I'm going to give some applause for the Svelte legacy and everyone working on it. There we go. You need some... That sounds more like a fish flopping around in a pond. It does, doesn't it? In a pond. we'll ask we'll ask some cheering in for for clarity that's that's people cheering this is the DIY audio engineering people sharing actually so we have sapper and so GL shall we should we flip back a separate I guess is is bigger on people's minds um yeah maybe yeah uh what's what's going on with sapper big question uh do you want to take this anthony well uh i'll tell you what i what i know but it's it's sort of i guess that the general consensus is sapra is an opinionated app builder right um however it's become apparent that maybe we don't really know what it is we don't know what people want it to be and it doesn't know what it is so there's a notion perhaps of um maybe you're modularizing it so definitely pulling apart a router maybe using the filebase router that's in SAPA right now as the official spelt router um but then also maybe looking at you know is it actually a bunch of roll-up plugins and not a framework in its own right or is it a bunch of modules that produce a thing called SAPA that can each be individually used and various parts pulled out it's it's still up in the air there's still a lot of discussion around what it is and what it isn't. But I would say that the API won't change too dramatically from what it is now. But what I would say is that the actual architecture of what SAP is inside might change.

 And one advantage of that, for instance, is this immediately apparent is reducing the dependency on the way that it's bundled. Because right now you've got kind of Webpack and you've got Rollup stuck in there at the same time. They're very deeply embedded in the framework and it makes things like HMR a lot harder in SAP than it is in Svelte. So I don't know. The answer is I don't know. We don't know. but definitely big things and happy to hear from the community what they think Sapper should be and what's useful to them. Rich, maybe you can make that clear and cohesive. Yeah, I love this idea of Sapper becoming bundler plugins rather than that control being inverted. I haven't quite wrapped my mind around what that would look like in terms of the code and whether it's possible to have the server component and the client component be separate from each other when they need to be quite tightly coupled in various ways. Like the client is expecting to hydrate certain markup and it's expecting to have certain preloaded data available to it. And so there's a lot of open questions that need some resolution. But there's a lot of really good ideas that are floating around. And I think there's also a lot of really good ideas that we can steal from other frameworks some people have asked questions like uh can we have mixed mode exporting where some pages that are static uh exported and some are dynamically server rendered and stuff like that and you know we need to figure out uh our story around deploying to various different services make that a bit more turnkey um there's a roadmap yes the yeah the long-running config issue um so for background on the config issue just quickly uh the config issue is that people are sort of it seems people are yearning for a config we haven't really fast forwarded that yet even though it's kind of there's prs for it and there's designs and stuff because maybe config isn't the right answer based on where we want this to go or want to end up and if we commit to it now then we're kind of stuck with it it becomes we're committing us our future selves to something when don't really know what the architecture of sepper is so so so when you're talking configs you're talking about pretty much moving things that are currently in in the roll config sort of out of it into separate config that and kind of ish that you pass to the cli ah yeah okay uh at the moment like yeah like if you have a base path for example you have to pass in dash dash base path and and stuff like that which and that probably does belong in in a config file of some sort i've always been a little bit hesitant about config files for like the reason that Anthony said like you are committing yourself um but also because they tend to become a little bit of a dumping ground and they make it easier for you to have a flabbier API um which maybe isn't the best reason not to have one but uh you know if we do this then we need to do it with our eyes wide open for for just a quick question on the tooling side of things so for for those who may not be paying too close attention to the tooling side um rich also you know is responsible for roll up um and uh i think there's there's some work going on with with roll up um i think the google devs um the google jake and surma um have also like started an initiative to to update some of them i guess at least like put all the bundlers on par like is there some level of like maybe this these problems are better solved at the roll-up level than at sapper um once we solve them at roll-up then we'll then we'll fix them in sap with at the sapper level or are they like kind of completely independent um movements there definitely are some problems that fall into that category like css code splitting for example right at the moment sapper is responsible for css code splitting and the code that makes it happen is just filthy uh but if you know if that was something that a bundler could could do automatically then it would make life a lot easier like veet i will i will note does do css code splitting i'm not exactly sure what the mechanism is but that's the thing that exists and people have been playing around with a combination of veet and svelte does sveet s-v-i-t-e yeah kind of like um and you know it's not inconceivable that a future version of sapa would be based off something like that instead of roll up like v uses roll up under the hood for the production build but when you're developing there's no bundler involved at all and i know there been talk about using nola instead of roll up at development time which is kind of a similar idea but from like it been going a lot longer um so like all of these questions about how these things fit together are kind of up in the air because the front end generally is sort of up in the air at the moment about like what our relationship to bundlers is um snowpack and v have really shaken things up um and i think we would be foolish to to bury our heads in the sand and ignore those developments how about the the should we should we talk about okay so like with zapper is like a bundle so many things right there's there's we have routing we have suspense uh i i kind of threw in suspense in there just because like um that's an issue that kind of uh is related to other frameworks ideas from other frameworks that we can steal um and hydration um which of these should we should we tackle first um well yeah there's the route to which is an easy one, right? I don't know. Is that easy? Well, so the router was a sort of a semi-official announcement, right? That there would now be plans due to community demand to produce a router. We already have a router, the one in SAP, the file-based router. Obviously, file-based routing is not everyone's cup of tea, but it gives us a good basis from which to start, right? So, like I say, an easy one. it's somewhere where there's definitely like a direction we can start off in. It's not like a massive open question. Right. Makes sense. Yeah. The ideal, I think we discussed this very briefly a while back, the ideal would be to have an official router that Sapper could use. Like maybe the file system is the input to the router. Like you call the router with the contents of some representation of the file system and it turns into a full-fledged router. The sticking point as far as I can see is that on the client side you want to be able to lazy load your routes but that means that you've got to be able to import things asynchronously and on the server side we don't have an asynchronous render method so we I think we would maybe need to think about streaming or async server-side rendering so that we could accommodate dynamic imports for, for routing if we were to have a universal reader like that, like a component based reader, I mean. So this is one of those things where like you start out with something that seems like a really obvious and good idea and suddenly you opened this massive can of worms and need to spend the next several months figuring out your asynchronous rendering But I think we should have that. I mean, I think that would be a useful thing to have in its own right. Okay, that's routing. It's a complicated topic. in React itself, I know we've had a lot of churn as well on the routing side, so not at all an easy thing. But I think I agree with the general proposition that it seems like a good thing for the ecosystem, especially... People have spoken. Yeah, Vue definitely does a good job of just keeping it first party. And yeah, that's a nice thing to have. Should we talk about Hydration? It's quite nice to be... Yeah, yeah, let's do it. Let's do it. I don't know anything about this hydration stuff. So this is all you. Well, there's a few... Rich, me? Yeah, you might be close to the specifics right now, but there's a few issues with how adaptation currently works. Number one, it's not as fast as it could be. There's probably some ways that we can speed things up. Number two, there are some bugs. Like if you have a CSS animation running on some server-ended content, and then you hydrate that, then CSS animation will restart, which is obviously no bueno. So we need to fix those issues. But there's also this larger question about incremental hydration and selective hydration, which is to say that if you've got a very big page with lots of content and you hydrate it, then that chokes the main thread for what could become a noticeable amount of time. um and so it would be nice if there was a way of doing that in stages instead of doing it all at once um it would also be nice if when you have parts of the the application that are fully static that you don't need to hydrate those at all that they they just sort of stay on the page and um and don't do anything um and these are all very difficult hairy technical questions um that will take some careful time. I was going to ask, isn't this one of those issues that haven't really been solved? Like in general, in the front of the room? Well, you know, I harp on

 lot about um i try not to but i hop on a lot about web components because um i think they have some fatal flaws in their design and that by and large they're not suitable for app development however they do have an answer to this question of selective hydration which is that um if you have uh an element on the page that is a custom element that has some some markup and some styles then it will only hydrate um once javascript kicks in and like all the rest of your static html is just left alone the downside of course is that until the hydration happens if you have any shadowed on content then nothing will happen at all um but they they have sort of created a benchmark that those of us like in the framework skeptic in the web component skeptic framework land should try and aim for right i was gonna say i think i think the the the well i'll go ahead with my thing um just quickly you know this is something i think rich touched upon this in his essay on the in defense of the modern web i think that's something that we're all thinking about maybe um with like the stuff that we have to get better at as framework people um the uh the other thing i'll sort of bring up which we have kind of i've kind of felt suspense thrown in there is that um react is kind of actively looking at suspense to do this work um in in a sense of like you can suspend indefinitely until you actually need to load that javascript i think that's what they're trying to do and we it's not unsolved in the sense that there are working demos that you can go and look up where they show incremental hydration and um i forget the other term for it selective hydration i think it's based on like whether it's in the window or like your mouse is hovering over it and so we might need to like provide a few different triggers for that but i don't think they're going to be that many it's just like is it rendered or not and then is it in the window or is your mouse on it that's those pretty much those are the three levels of you know selective selecting your hydration yeah um yeah i just wanted to actually mention that the prs that are open because people have solved the hydration issue um they have said you know this is this is how you do that tear down the on and it looks like we just kind of sitting on them and kind of ignoring them but we not so the reason they haven been accepted and merged straight away is because again it kind of it solves a corridor case problem but it doesn solve the wider problem in that it's felt actually quite generous about what it will and won't hydrate. It doesn't mandate this perfect structure that it can rehydrate. It is quite lenient in terms of that. So whilst these will solve that major case, they will then break those cases where people are using it with even non non-svelte generated ssr code so um yeah just wanted to mention that and i think those cases are more common than people generally acknowledge i very often will have for example buttons that are disabled until hydration is complete and so just a minor thing like that if you assume that the market that comes from the server is good to go then you're going to end up with a broken application not to mention anything that involves like time stamps or anything of that nature like if you have a post that was posted three minutes ago when it was server rendered but by the time it gets the client is four minutes ago then like hey you've got a broken app and yeah we've got to be able to accommodate those cases cool um well well there so you know just i don't know how how much whether or not people care about this this thing or not but you brought it up yourself with opening an issue about spell suspense. Does that actually mean a heavier runtime as far as spell is concerned? It would do if we were to implement it because we would need to change the update model slightly. At the moment, when a component updates, it just goes ahead and updates the DOM immediately. And we would need to switch to an approach where it was storing those updates in a list and then applying them after the fact. And so that, I've sort of dabbled with some imaginary pseudocode to see what this would look like. And it would involve generating slightly more code, which we want to avoid in the general case. But it would also enable some other things like error boundaries and stuff, which we don't really do at the moment. So it might be worth looking at that. More broadly, though, I am a little skeptical about suspense. I think we need to wait and see how it plays out in practice before we commit to suspense Sapper has something rather suspense in the form of preload functions The things that you want to use suspense for generally which is deferring some kind of navigation, we can do that at the page level with Sapper already. And that serves like 80 or 90% of the use cases for suspense that I've seen described in the wild. Meanwhile, I see people who are wrestling with beta versions of React, trying to get suspense working and it's causing them no end of confusion and pain because the mental model is, is just so different when you're working in that world. And so I'm, I'm not entirely convinced that it's the right direction for frameworks to go in. But I, I could easily be proven wrong. Yeah. Yeah. it's a very evolving field and nobody really knows until we just try it out um perfect it's quite nice to be late to the party on this sort of thing you know same with routers right because you get the uh the prior investigation of every other framework out there yeah i mean this is this is kind of like the svelte's way of being right is we we want to include as much stuff as possible but we because we're a small volunteer team we don't have um the benefit of sort of react for example because they have this huge community this huge ecosystem and react itself has always been we're going to have this very um small uh focus in the library itself and then you know you go off and build react router and react spring and react this react that and then um the the best solutions will rise like cream to the top um but then they don't integrate them into the framework itself so you get this constant churn um whereas we've always said like we want to include this stuff in the framework itself but we don't have the ability to do that amount of investigation so i think if we can if we can do what you describe let the community reach the best possible solutions and then integrate the best ones into the framework then it might take us a little bit longer but ultimately I think that's the best of both worlds. Awesome. And this is kind of how the case for like start your pre-process and the type of stuff. It's all been community projects that have been brought into the fray as well. So it's quite nice in that respect. Yeah. And one day I love to add Svelte native to that list Yeah absolutely Absolutely I still haven really tried it out more than a simple application but from what I understand, it's pretty well done. Svelte native? Yeah, you could for sure make production-ready apps for it. I'm completely ignorant about this, but how much is done by native scripts and how much is done by Svelte side of things? I couldn't tell you I have no idea I've never actually put the code either but my understanding is that it's basically Svelte component running on top of NativeScript so NativeScript is providing like a fake DOM essentially and the components themselves are basically unchanged cool awesome should we talk about the other additions to Svelte Svelte GL sure okay it's that child that we never get to but we always want we always mean to get to it but we know yeah so i i have a very bad habit of building things that i need at work and then thinking oh this could be useful to other people too and then sort of throwing them over the wall in a somewhat incomplete state it's fine and imagining that somehow i'm going to find time to to finish them and polish them up and add documentation and all of these other things. And so that's true as felt GL. It's also true of pancake, my charting library. And all I can say is I'm sorry. I would love to spend more time doing it. It's really, well, yeah, but the trouble is just something like felt GL is getting the API right is it's not straightforward. And I think there are there are a lot of problems in open source that can be solved by just throwing people at them um but api design for something that is in a bit of an experimental state is not one of those things it needs um it needs some dedication from like a small number of people who kind of have understood the problem space and i'm still in the process of understanding the problem space So I guess if there are people out there who are pretty familiar with 3D graphics and have used things like 3 or other WebGL libraries and have a really good grasp

 of the concepts involved then maybe we should make it a bit more of a collaborative thing but um until then it has been a little bit neglected and that's that's on me where so okay just to you know if i'm if let's say i'm one of those people listening and i and i have some background and i have some interest um and i gotta go to the repo like where where do i start where do i do i just file an issue saying like here i am like you know i'm ready to discuss stuff i guess yeah or yell at me on twitter okay okay so do we have a gl part of the of the discord we do uh we did do maybe that's a bit misleading uh at some point like making it more uh showing up as more like active than it actually is I think there should be a channel we need a place to chat about it yeah there is a GL channel in the Discord I haven't did it in a while but it's actually quite active it looks like this Goblin King guy is all over it yeah he's doing like an MMORPG right what? yeah it's really cool cool i guess the final boss is going to be the goblin king um yeah that kind of makes sense so this kind of brings me to to uh another question so so you said you you usually do stuff on like stuff you do for work you if i might realize oh someone else might need this so so what are you currently working at that might be for someone else in the future um the the stuff that i'm working on at work at the moment isn't it's very nyt specific uh for the last several months i've been working on our coronavirus tracker project um which is a thing that got started uh earlier this year when um the the pandemic was was first blowing up there wasn't a like a good single authoritative place where you could track the um the rising cases and deaths around the world um largely because our own government wasn um doing a great job of making this data available um and so what began as a as a fairly modest spreadsheet spreadsheet effort with a few maps and charts has since ballooned into this thing with dozens and dozens of different pages We have a page for every state in the US. We have a page for numerous countries around the world. We have a world page. We have a USA page, a USA page in Spanish, plus various pages tracking testing data and all these other things. and so I'm part of a team like a huge team the team that's bigger than most newsrooms in the US of developers and designers and reporters who are trying to provide that authoritative data source and I'm working on the publishing end of that trying to figure out how we can actually keep these pages updated several times a day and The pages, they use Svelte quite heavily. They use Pancake and they use other things. But there hasn't been any development in any of those things as a result of the project. All of the development has been on getting our publishing system to behave with a project to this magnitude because normally it's for single one-off articles and stuff and we're pushing it to its limits. It's almost a new site. It's a dedicated app for this issue. and uh yeah well we we compare it to our election coverage um because which you're also going to handle this year yeah well we already do because like there's there's there's there's elections happening all the time um the big one obviously is going to be in november but uh between now and then there's a bunch of other stuff um and the election app is a thing that powers dozens of pages across the site and there's a bunch of components that are shared between all of them but then some of them are specific to specific pages and so like you have this this big management problem of how do you orchestrate all of these different things and the coronavirus pandemic is is very similar to that in terms of how we approach the project Awesome. Cool. That is important work. Yeah. I mean, it's just, yeah, the COVID thing is crazy. All right. Do we have any, any last few? Well because we got a couple of topics on pancake and Melina any I think pancake is kind of like the same boat Is this pretty much Yeah I think we covered Pancake Do we what the call to action for Pancake What do people want? What does Rich want? Documentation. So I made a very small start on building some documentation, but I never got around to deploying it. And that is mostly because we need it for internal use. Like my coworkers building things with it, like always having to ask me questions about how it all fits together and if we had some documentation and examples then that would help um so i just need to get the ball rolling on that and then that would be a thing that i think people could contribute to and that would be broadly appreciated um yeah that's that's it docs will this will this ever be on there on the level of like an official library like official Svelte library or is will it always be sort of third party uh I think it could well so it's on npm it's released under the Svelte namespace oh um but I I don't know if it would be elevated to the point of being like a subdomain on Svelte.dev or something like that I think there's I think there's room for multiple different takes on the problem of charting like pancake is purely about it's basically just about managing Cartesian scales, that's all there is to it it doesn't do pie charts, it doesn't do lots of other things that you might expect from a charting library, it's really column charts, bar charts, line charts, scatter plots stuff like that, so there are other things that have, that support a much broader array of chart types, like my co-worker Michael Keller maintains layer cake which um does all of the things pancake does but a lot of other stuff as well uh so you know i i wouldn't i wouldn't necessarily say that like one of those should become the official charting framework i think there's room for different ones so melina what is it it's uh from what i understand it's supposed to make uh make uh like the reactivity a bit more native-like? Is that a good description? Yeah, so there's a blog post that I've read a couple of times and I haven't sort of weighed in on this thing yet because I really want to understand what it's doing and how it works before I form an opinion It sounds great like it looks really cool um it compares some generated code between svelte and melina and uh the melina code is is doing some some smart things like uh generating html and then grabbing child nodes from it instead of programmatically constructing the the the dom tree um which means that the generated code is smaller uh for a lot of things um there's a couple of design decisions that i'm not totally sure about like the it changes the event handling syntax slightly but basically it's like a a almost svelte clone that generates smaller code and has more reactivity features like you can push to a raise and that will cause an update immediately um and it looks great but as i say i want to i want to try and understand it better first because like i don't know what it's not doing right there's svelte has a gazillion features that are probably not present in this thing because it's quite new and you know it's conceivable that some of the design choices that it's made are incompatible with some svelte features uh so yeah need to need to understand it better yeah i i also haven't had a huge look at it um but i've seen some discussions about it and i think one of the one of the big sort of uh potential bug bears again without really understanding how it works is that it shifts a lot of that reactivity into the digest loop on the on the client side so it's doing something that's more uh akin to like what angular might do or react might do versus what svelte might do Svelte being a thing that wires things up on that on the uh in the compile before you know before compilation uh again it's not something I completely understand but that's what I understand from what the what the current sort of analysis of it has been uh there's another one called Svelte and I'm not sure what the relation between the two is but it seems to be very similar yeah so I if I remember correctly the same guy wrote um wrote Molina and Svelte and I think it's just a rename a rebrand maybe wait he wrote a svelte competitor called svelte no well svelte m so i i think the svelte m thing was just to show like some reactivity stuff like oh look at this if you only do this you can you can push to a race yeah i agree with

 that's probably like the first thing i i ran into and that's a big problem um but i don't know you just learn to deal with it but maybe maybe that he shows he's showing a better way you know well i think i think the thing is they're both they're both almost pitched as a set by the author they're pitched as a set of optimizations that stelt could incorporate yeah um they're not designed to compete directly um people have taken it on uh and started promoting it um as a direct competitor in a kind of way that's saying that we would never have these optimizations and this is going to take over and it's going to be the future which is not I think what the original author's intention was it's a bit of a wild thing but yeah it's not like we don't want to optimize Svelte in any way it's just that it has to be properly assessed because as Rich says neither of these well Melina let's say doesn't do anything like what Svelte does it's a very very small set of things it's cherry picked certain things it thinks are suboptimal and svelte and optimize those and we don't know whether the optimization that's been done is is sensible or not or whether it worked with any of the other stuff so it's it's an ongoing uh investigation and obviously like it'd be interesting to hear more from the author and and about the design decisions and stuff too so who knows on the podcast one day yeah yeah that'd be great yeah there's some there's some benchmark numbers here that show um melina being quite a bit faster than svelte at certain tasks and i think this is an amazing way to contribute to a to a framework is to say you could be doing these things in a completely different way like if you would do that as a pull request then you know you would have it would be a much bigger task right because like you need to change the entire workings and you need to rewrite entire chunks the framework while making all of the existing tests pass. But if you can just sort of create a new thing from scratch and say, what if we'd gone down this road instead, then you can prove an idea without the massive overhead of contributing to the framework directly. So I definitely approve of the existence of this thing. I just don't yet have an opinion on what's going on under the hood yet, and I want to. Wonderful. yeah this is really impressive work right I think that that was our last topic I think do we want to do do we want to do picks Does everyone have a pick I can go Yeah, go ahead, Anthony. I was going to say, my pick is listed below, so I'm not going to have a pick because I think we'll cover it anyway. Sure. We seem to have the same picks from last time. Okay. Well, I'll just write my own pick. uh so my so i've been i've been experiencing uh so i wrote a hundred thousand word book um over two months and that was a lot of typing and i started to get some rsi and uh and and so you know i think i think we have to preserve our fingers because that that's the primary way in which we express our um our code until uh elon musk finishes his neural link project and then we just plug into the matrix um so i i've got i've got the microsoft sculpt um and it's it's this this is this keyboard that's kind of slopes the other way so a lot of keyboards slope upwards and that's actually actually bad oh anthony has one there it is um and uh it's it's yeah it's really changed my mind on on um on how good sort of wireless keyboards can be and and mice um especially how with everything like the way that you remove the covers it just uses magnets so it just kind of sticks together nicely um there's all these little touches which like people have been raving about it i i'm a late adopter for sure but i tried it out you know i had i have some uh money from from work to um to to buy some equipment and uh yeah i'm loving it so far uh and my my my trick my tip is uh so i you know i did a bunch of research into rsi so you can find out my on my site my my notes on rsi and one of the one of the tips is you you don't want to do like this like with your with your hands up like that you always want to kind of um you know suspend it and that's why people use wrist rest unfortunately the experience of wrist rest isn't very good so what i've done is i put the keyboard inside of a drawer and i rest my hands on the drawer so i'm always suspended and typing typing the right way um and it's working well it's working well it might cut off my it might cut off my circulation for a bit but then i just move more it's worth noting actually another advantage of this keyboard is because when you normally type when you type on a regular keyboard your wrists are like you can't see an audio podcast but you can see on the video one maybe your hands are like this but with this keyboard it forces a more natural angle and i think that for me because i used to get like twinges and stuff that solved all of that i haven had a single twinge in in years since having this keyboard all right um i have a pick uh it's uh so i recently got a raspberry pi 4 and i decided to install uh something called matrix on it um cool which is like a i don't know peer-to-peer kind of, not really peer-to-peer, but some kind of chat, encrypted chat service. So I'm looking at moving away from like using any kind of like services run by companies. Getting tired of privacy issues. It's just a fun tinkering project, really. So I would recommend getting a Raspberry Pi, I think. I've had one. it's definitely good for yeah small hacking stuff i just like you know if it shuts down i have no way of knowing so i tend to default to the car if i if i can yeah yeah i have a bunch of them around the house they are pretty cool i think the only ones i've had anything on long term is um i've got one upstairs and one downstairs but basically for a project called um i think what's cause not audacity it's it's it's some audio file music project but it's like having a sonos in your house that only costs like 30 dollars or whatever um streams to your existing speakers use the DAC on the pius it's got like supreme audio quality and you can stream and you can do spotify cash from your phone and stuff you should write about this this sounds good it sounds really i should i try remember the name of it i'm gonna find it quickly whilst rich have you got a pick because i can find the name of this whilst you're doing yours i have a pick um so it's it's summer in new york city and that means there's lots of flies about uh i have a device here called the executioner and it looks like a tennis racket it's actually called the executioner yeah i can i'm holding this up to the webcam yeah that's his that's his real name yeah yeah wow um and you there's like a there's a few different models um similar to this that you can get that sort of resemble tennis rackets but this one is orders of magnitude more powerful than anyone that i've used before to the extent that if you actually manage to make contact with a fly then if it small enough it will just instantly vaporize with a very satisfying crack um and so despite being intensely worried about the impending insect apocalypse i i love my executioner what kind what kind of flies and mosquitoes do you have over there we certainly have plenty of mosquitoes um i had fruit flies i made the mistake of buying a pineapple from trader joe's and my flat was full of fruit flies for the next week so don't do that yeah just like normal normal flies that you get living in a gross city like New York so I also have the executioner downstairs as well and I will say that if you look what it does close up if you hit a fly with it you've got those really annoying flies fly around it literally blows their wings off it's like I can't imagine what that must feel like to a fly I mean obviously system inside but the wings just go it's crazy it's absolutely crazy does work surprisingly enough yeah y'all need to just i remember the yeah um the name of my project that i was talking about is volumio so it's like volume io and it's like a little node jss oh that's free and open yeah they should but they it is it is and it's and it's amazing it's equivalent to a sonos but a lesser walled garden so i really really like it i think it's a great project rich this this looks like your your type of thing you like the audio yeah what's the what's the url yeah it's cool volume uh volumio.org it's in the chat um cool oh there we go yeah i spelt it wrong the first time that's very cool it does multi-room now as well so you can choose a room on your phone and direct to a room you want to play music in it's pretty cool i should check this out as well awesome now i just need to have big enough to make it worthwhile yeah they have a paid plan as well but it's the free one is is you know everything barring some plugins and stuff so it's just really good all right i think that's it for uh for our chat with uh rich thanks so much for yeah having for coming on thanks for coming rich yeah thanks for having me thanks for working on svelte hey guys uh all right yeah we're gonna shut down so there we go that's that's oh nice nice

 She's operating off theirision.