 Hello everyone, welcome to another episode of Svelte Radio. Yay! Woohoo! It's almost felt summit time. But before we get into the episode, maybe a short status update. What have you guys been up to? Sean, Anthony. Yeah, for me, we are working on shipping our TypeScript SDK at work. It will be the best long-running work job library in JavaScript, by our opinion. And also, we're working on a Svelte app for our UI. So that's what's going on. Nice. So Bjorn got funded. So basically, it means I can hire people, hired a bunch of people uh a lot from the svelte community which has been awesome and now we're just working on converting everything to svelte kit which is of course awesome nice nice all right yeah so i've been mostly working on svelte summit um it's just two weeks away yeah two weeks away and uh yeah that's it got my appendix removed it's exciting cool and uh anyway let's uh let's let's move on uh so uh we have a guest today it's uh none other than richard welcome hey so uh what's up well i i do have a status update i am currently between jobs I'm fun employed. Oh, no. Do you need work? Do you need us to put out a call for you? I have spent the week doing all of the personal admin that gets overlooked when you're working a 40-hour-plus week. I went and got a filling the other day. Wow. Not quite as dramatic as having my appendix removed, but it was still a first. Very exciting. Still a procedure. I've been cleaning the flat, which is always very cathartic. Actually we hired a cleaner for the first time a while back on the recommendation of a friend because that what childless 30 couples do in New York it turns out And she came around and did a fantastic job. The flat was absolutely spotless. But then ever since then, we're like, we may as well just wait for the cleaner to come back. And so we've gone completely feral. And so the flat is far, far dirtier than at any point before we had a cleaner. And so I spent a large part of my week off trying to rectify that. Bought some new shoes. We used to hire a cleaner as well. And then the new Mac came out and my wife wanted it. So she fired the cleaner and bought the Mac. And now the house is dirty, but she's got a shiny Mac. Nice. It's just like upsetting the equilibrium. It really does. all right so uh i guess that's exciting so wait i want to hear about the shoes there was some shoes mentioned quickly all right oh yeah it's just another one of these things that i haven't got around to doing because i've been too busy my shoes had giant holes in them and now they're done it's great it sounds like my uh my girlfriend she she really uses her shoes until they're like completely destroyed. It's very economical. It's the glamorous life of OSS maintenance, right? Yeah. This is what this is. All right. So you're leaving the New York Times then, right? For how long have you been there? So I joined the Times in May 2017. So I was there for about four and a half years, plus or minus, which is actually the longest I've ever been in one place throughout my career. Not that it feels like it. I feel like time accelerates as you get older. And so the last four and a half years have absolutely zipped by. But it came to an end last week. Although, like, technically, I didn't end until yesterday. But I took my last week as vacation. And then I started everything on Monday. Do they have any rituals when you leave? Yeah, so there's the ritual leaving roast, which happens because of the pandemic. Obviously, we don't do these things in the office anymore, but we had a really nice little leaving do in Brooklyn Bridge Park And the members of the department that are based in New York came down and we had some pizza and some beers and shared some jokes A tradition in newsrooms is when someone's leaving, they get a mock front page with stories about them, like sort of roasting them. In my case, they didn't do a front page. They did a mock coronavirus tracker. and it's and it was it was so beautifully done so what's what's on it's just like just uh just taking the piss out of me for yeah two a three pages and then you know had a had a little virtual uh leaving do on on my last day in the office in the quote-unquote office and then that was it is this is this mock coronavirus tracker are you gonna make it public or is it just uh what stays in vegas kind of thing what's that sorry well is it going to be a public thing at some point or are you just going to keep it it's all department in jokes and stuff shame so it's good you've been there for a while right so any any kind of particular stories that that you've worked on that stand out through the years there's a few um so i i joined the investigations team initially and I was with that team for about oh let me see probably about three years and so most of the time that I was there I was working on these big investigative pieces and when you're working in that kind of environment you you publish like one or two things a year so whereas many of my colleagues are publishing things like every other week I only actually have a fairly small number of bylines to my name but some of those investigative pieces stick out there I think the first really big piece that we did was called The Follower Factory. And it was a piece about how celebrities and politicians and people like that were buying fake Twitter followers. And we spent a lot of time abusing the Twitter API to get as much data as we could to show that you can find these fake accounts using quasi-statistical methods. And as a result, Twitter took millions of bots off its accounts. They were sort of shamed into doing it. That's pretty cool. Yeah. I did some graphics for some pieces that my co did There was one about the surveillance economy of how companies will use the like the free apps on your phone like you install a weather app and it needs to have access to your location and then it just like sells your location to whoever wants to buy it and there are these companies that have these incredibly detailed maps of where uh where you've been and like in theory it's all anonymized but we were able to show that you can de-anonymize people really easily and we produced this um this this map of of new york city that was entirely composed of like the dots of gps traces from from people's phones and it's incredible the amount of detail that you can see when when you have this data like you can see the traffic getting backed up going in and out of the lincoln tunnel you can see the the footpaths going through the park that are less used and all of this stuff and it was kind of scary just seeing it visualized like that like the the amount that these companies know about all of this is it's horrifying it's kind of like uh when you go into like i don't know if you guys been into like the google dashboard and you take a look at like your location history that's that's kind of what i'm imagining it looking like i mean i wouldn't mind if i was the only person who had access to that data but it's it's just not the case. And it is a little creepy. Of course, for the last 18 months, my work has mostly been focused on the coronavirus tracker that the Times put out. And that's been a large part of my life. Although I think the most fun project that I've done during my tenure at the Times was our Olympics coverage. We produced these little videos of little blue Lego people swimming and running because we weren't allowed to use the footage from the games themselves because like NBC have a lock on the broadcast rights. And so we did these sort of cute little data visualizations. And that was an incredibly fun project to work on. And it was a SvelteKit app as well. It was another opportunity to use SvelteKit at work, which is always good dog fooding. I know someone mentioned you know I can't remember if it was on Discord or something since you're leaving the New York Times do you think that the New York Times will continue to use Svelte or will your colleagues sort of resent you looking at what they use next or something I don't know I mean so that's the kind of in joke that was on

 that that leaving roast is like everyone's going to start using react now i i i'm pretty confident that um that it's kind of bedded in at this point so the the graphics publishing workflow is being overhauled at the moment and as part of that there's a new we call it the interactive server that's being written in svelte kit um the new election app is i understand it going to be written in svelte kit or at least the election pages themselves are going to be written in Svelte. And it's got a pretty good toehold in the department as a whole now. At first, it was like, it's very difficult to convince journalists to learn new technical skills, I found, because like, most people working in that environment aren't doing so because they really love JavaScript, right? They're doing so because, you know, JavaScript is a tool that allows you to do different forms of journalism and like learning how to configure webpack and all of that stuff it's like it's the last thing on anyone's priority list and so when i came along um into the department and started building everything was felt people just like looked at me like a like a weirdo uh but then gradually like as i would work on projects with other people and they could see the benefit of building user interfaces declaratively um rather than doing things with jQuery and and like Lodash templates and whatever um gradually people sort of got on on the Svelte train and now like a lot of people have sort of said I I refuse to build things any other way than with Svelte and so even though it's not like we don't have standards I keep saying we and I shouldn't say they which is very sad um the the department doesn't have like standards there's no like mandates about what technology you use when you're building stuff um and so people are absolutely free to do whatever they want it's become a little bit of a a standard for uh for some people in the department so i'm pretty confident that it's going to continue being used yeah cool nice so are you uh are you staying in uh new york are you uh i am gonna move somewhere yeah no i i really like it here um the job that i'm going to is remote first so I'm just going to be a work from home person permanently. Nice And that where you discover whether you are a work from home person well i have that pretty established at this point because like when we all got sent home at the beginning of like you know march last year i was a little worried like i for for two weeks it's like great this is kind of like a quasi holiday sort of thing two weeks is going to be great but then when it dawned on us that it's not going to be two weeks that this is our lives now at first i was very trepidatious about the whole thing i thought that you know everyone's going to turn into a recluse we're going to forget how to converse and whatever and in actual fact i i've discovered that i really like working from home i am very worried about what working from home being the norm means for society at large i think that it's a fraying of the social fabric that is going to have deep and long lasting consequences but for me personally at my stage in life i bloody love it i love being able to roll out of bed five minutes before i'm supposed to clock on and have a productive day's work feed myself well get time for a workout do some chores take the laundry out whatever and then i still don't have to commute home in the evening for me it's just a dramatically better quality of life. I agree 100%. And I think for most people, it kind of is the same. But my concern is for the younger people who have never worked in an office and go into an environment where people don't work in offices, you do lose a lot of the social side of things. You say that, you know, you're worried about people losing their social skills and stuff. I definitely did to an extent. And I've been very social before. I've been, i'm a nightmare in office i just talk a lot and distract people right and um working at home probably was a massive relief for everybody but the but the thing is that's what's happened is that you know when i go out now i've forgotten how to like drink for one so i just get drunk really quickly i've also forgotten how to like talk to people about reasonable things that they're interested in and they're looking at me like some kind of alien it's actually a really weird thing so i i think i kind of share your fear a little bit just from experience from personal experience Yeah. Yeah. I kind of, I kind of want something like a hybrid thing. That would probably be the best for me. Yeah. Choice. One or two days at the office and then. Yeah. It's difficult though, because like that. Yeah. I think it difficult because you have to have like allocated seating You have to have property and rent to pay and stuff on an office So I guess it something we got to yet develop All right. Any other questions for Rich before we move on? Oh, I have one more New York Times question, which is that there seems to be phases in terms of the New York Times JavaScript output. So there was the Mike Bostock phase, and then there was the rich harris face who's the next javascript up-and-comer that we should be watching out for oh man uh i'm not gonna name any individuals in case people massive pressure i mean all i'll say is that the department has like an incredible bench like there's there's so much depth of talent on that team and there's there's always new people coming into the times and there's people like coming from other areas of the times and getting more involved in graphics like the amount of programming skill that that department has access to is is really humbling um so i i don't know but i'm excited to find out like what what that like what the next few years uh bring yeah oh sorry i didn't i didn't mean to trap you into like naming one person i i don't i think it's fascinating how much technology comes out of yeah i mean i i think it's it's because everything is a little bit kind of freeform in a newsroom like everything is is very very based on pragmatics um you know if something isn't practical then no one's interested so there's like very little sort of ivory tower stuff that happens in an environment like that and there's also no sort of structure determining who gets to work on open source stuff or anything like that. So I've said it for a long time and I will continue saying it. A newsroom is, I think, one of the best places that you can hope to be a developer. The opportunities that you'll get to do interesting work are pretty unrivaled. Awesome. All right. So why'd you leave? Exactly. What's next? Tell us. When is this going out? This episode? So I'll send it in for editing probably later today. And then we probably be out on I don know Wednesday Thursday And who are the editors We need to name the editors in case there a leak and then we in him okay so by the time this episode goes uh live i will have been working at the cell for the previous few days i am joining the cell as of monday and i'm joining to work on svelte full-time amazing that is exciting so what what does that actually mean? I don't know. I mean, I really don't know. So, you know, I've had some really good conversations with Shermo, the CEO of the company, and also Lindsay, who's the VP of engineering, about like what things are going to look like. But, you know, I really don't think you can tell what things are actually going to work like until you get your feet under the desk. So I'm really excited about Monday. I'm excited about seeing how the company works together. I'm excited about like seeing what it's going to mean to have a full-time person working on svelte uh i think it's a great situation the context of the cell obviously the interesting context because not everyone pretty knows the cell who they are um is that they created and own next js which would be probably the biggest direct competitor to svelte kit you know nuxt as well but probably just the biggest i mean i i don't know that i would uh call them competitors necessarily just because of the vast disparity in in user base like next is the 800 pound gorilla it's it is completely dominating in terms of um of usage like i i i feel like most people if if you're building a react application especially if you're starting a new react application you're probably going to reach for next because it has become this sort of de facto standard it is the way that you build react apps and react is obviously so much bigger than svelte that it would feel absurd for me to say that svelte kit is a competitor to next i i would i would use a word like alternative or well yeah i suppose i suppose by competitor alternative is what i mean it's it's It's not like there's no money involved in Next, but not so much in SvelteKit. So it's more like if you're building a web app, you choose one of three main things, I guess, really. Yeah. Yeah.

 This is honestly part of the appeal of being able to work at Vassell is having access to the Next team because the work that they've been able to do and the muscle that they're putting behind things like SWC and all of this other stuff. Next.js Live is this incredible piece of work. Like being in the room, albeit virtually, where those ideas are being thrashed out, I think is also going to be hugely beneficial to Svelte because, you know, a lot of those ideas we're probably going to want to steal. I mean, the idea for SvelteKit itself is, let's be honest, very largely stolen from Next. Next wasn't the first framework to have the idea of file system-based routing for a React app, but it was, I think, the first successful implementation of that idea. And Sapper, SvelteKit's predecessor, was very explicitly inspired by Next. and SvelteKit was you know part of the reason that we that we kind of mothballed Sapper and worked on SvelteKit instead is because Next had shown the value of having this kind of hybrid capability where some parts of your app are static and some parts are dynamic and having this sort of serverless first approach is something that we weren't able to to put into Sapper so you know at multiple points in Svelte's development, we've been directly inspired by Next. And I think this is kind of a fitting evolution of that. Sounds very nice. Cool. I would say also one of the founding philosophies of Next.js and also actually React itself is that there are some DX niceties from PHP that we wanted to bring back. And so obviously like the file-based routing was directly inspired. And actually, arguably, Svelte is closer to that PHP enhanced HTML to get what you want ideal than Next.js is. I'll be interested to see you explore that. Yeah, I mean, I'm very excited about the direction that SvelteKit is going in at the moment. Like, I know that we've been sort of promising 1.0 just around the corner for a long time, but it really is shaping up into something that I personally find to be a delight to use. I feel very productive when I using SvelteKit And I think it going to be like a really sort of intuitive way for people to build apps And and yeah, I think that taking things back to those basics is always a good way to, to think about design questions. Yeah. So what will this mean for, for Svelte as a project? Like, are you shuffling things around in the org or? No, I mean, So the organization remains as it is. Svelte will continue to be a fully independent project, like completely open source. It's not going to be like Svelte by Vassell or anything like that. The way that I think about it is, you know, Vassell, because they have customers who use Svelte, because, you know, it's in there, they talk about being the SDK for the web and like that means not being fully React-centric. You know, they see it as being in their interests. And I don't want to put words into Gashemo's mouth or anything like that because I'll probably get things wrong. But essentially the way that I see it is it's Invercell's interests for Svelte to be as good as possible. And they are essentially sponsoring Svelte's development by paying me to work on it. So that's how I'm thinking about this. They're not taking ownership of the project or anything like that. They're just putting real resources behind it, which to me feels like a really good model for funding open source generally. Yeah. Yeah. And, you know, we still have this very robust and opinionated core team who work in all different environments. We've got, you know, the sort of Bionk-style startups represented. We've got Cloudflare represented because Luke Edwards is there. We've got people from so many different backgrounds and environments that the sort of independent spirit of Svelte, I think is pretty well entrenched at this point. Nice. That's good to hear. So your first week, what will it look like? I guess you don't know. I have no idea. So I have an invitation to an onboarding session. So I have an invitation to an onboarding session Eastern Time. So I wondering if like my my day is going to be sort of oriented around Pacific time which will be great for me because I always a slow to get started in the mornings But beyond that beyond having that first onboarding session I have absolutely no idea Talked a little bit with my new boss about some ongoing projects at Vassell that would be beneficial from an onboarding perspective for me to have some involvement in But ask me that question in a month and we'll see how things are shaking out. I will say, so I worked for Netlify out of New York. so I had the East Coast working for West Coast thing and it's amazing you come in so prepared to every meeting because you had like two or three hours heads up before that yeah then you're working three hours later than everyone else as well well you know you don't have to have meetings that late that's true so if you don't know what you're going to work on so like what are some things in kit or svelte that you want to like work on anything and that stands out that needs some anything that stands out i mean i it's no secret that i've been a little bit detached from the day-to-day maintenance of both svelte and kit lately so as a starting point i need to look through the existing open pull requests on kit and just go through those and address some of those. I think the highest priority is getting SvelteKit to a stable 1.0. And we don't want to set a date on that. It's not going to be ready for Svelte Summit, I can say that much. But I would like to devote the bulk of my time towards getting that done. Other things that I'm quite keen on spending some time on, I would like to get Svelte 3, which is not like Svelte version 3, but Svelte-3, which is a component library that wraps 3.js, allows you to build 3D scene graphs declaratively. Built that for that Olympics project that I was referring to before. And it's kind of like Svelte's answer to React Free Fiber. And I would love to get some documentation and examples built for that so that people can actually start using it for real. and then i i guess once those things are done it's time to start thinking about the future of felt itself we have a little roadmap of things that we're sort of thinking about for felt for but you know there a lot of open prs and issues on that repo that that could use some love before we start getting too grandiose in our ambitions but we do have a lot of ambitions That good Because there are I sure there are like a couple of RFCs that are merged that need some, like some features that aren't there yet that are coming. I think also Ben takes on a lot of the kind of, Ben McCann, this is, takes on a lot of the day-to-day reviewing and merging and stuff himself. and he's saying that as it grows in popularity it's almost like whack-a-mole you know the the new issues the new the new prs start coming up quicker than he can actually close them and emerge them which is uh so it's good to have multiple people on that i think good problem tap i guess yeah i mean yeah but yeah in a way an absolute hero but he's also like he has as a young child and you know also has you know his own life and his own job and so can't devote like an you know full-time hours to to squash in these prs yeah like anybody yeah exactly and so what my hope is that is that we're going to be able to trend like the at the moment like prs and issues are being open faster than we can close them essentially and my hope is very much that by me being there full-time we're going to be able to to reverse that and i'm not expecting that we're going to be able to like blitz through them immediately but just as long as the trend is going in the right direction then as a team i think we will feel less on the back foot less overwhelmed by our inability to service the the issues that are coming into the repo um we've also we're also switching to using github discussions which i think is probably going to help us being be a little bit more organized yeah that's that's definitely it that's like a controversial opinion we had a lot of sort of discussions about that previously and it's interesting that we've now gone towards it yeah i think that's gonna like help on the discord as well people asking questions hopefully we'll see i guess i guess one of the hardest problems right now is like determining what makes it into 1.0 what becomes 1.0 and that's that's the thing that's quite hard to solve i think speaking of um 1.0 we we talked a bit about it what's needed for it to to actually get to 1.0 i'm opening the the repo now so i can look at the yeah so we

 We have... Because it's almost like a moving target. Yeah. We have 24 open PRs and some of these, I have absolutely no context for what they are, like register custom service worker for AMP. That's very interesting. I didn't know that that was a thing. There's some preliminary internationalization work. There's some like chore type stuff, like improving our test suite, making it less flaky. So I think those will be easy merges. the the stuff that's that's always hard to merge is um anytime you have things that change the api in some way um it's it's often very difficult as a contributor to make um api changes that will end up getting merged because there's often some reason that things are the way they are and things like a reason that things aren't the way they're not and those reasons aren't always articulated or expressed very clearly because they're sort of in the maintainer's heads um and so those are those are always the hardest prs because they sort of force you to articulate those previously unarticulated things and that involves having sometimes a fairly lengthy discussion about pros and cons um and it's one of those things where like it's really important to be diplomatic because the rationale for the pr is is always good it's always you know here's a thing like a problem that could be fixed in this way and you have to sort of come back and say yes but actually we should do it this other way and that means that your problem isn't going to get solved for another few weeks and that's always that's always tough an example at the moment that we're having is around server-side rendering because if you import something into your component that will not work in a node environment or a serverless environment then your app will just crash because even though you've said uh this page doesn't need to be server-side rendered in order to determine that SvelteKit currently has to import that page the component for that page inspect it and say oh we're not going to bother server-side rendering it but by that point you've already imported the broken module and and so the app crashes and so like one way to do that is to have an option that just disables server-side rendering across the entire application and we think that that has too many negative consequences because, you know, server-side rendering is something that should, in general, be enabled for most of your application we think And so like we need to have a debate about an API that will allow you to disable server rendering truly and not like have that problem with things being loaded that shouldn be but that gives you that sort of granularity and it's it's tough there's always so many trade-offs involved in these things um and those are the things that sort of stretch out the time before you can cut a stable release is like you actually need to build consensus around these things if we weren't interested in having consensus and having people understand the decisions that we're making and agree with the decisions that we're making then it would probably be fairly easy we just like riffle through the prs close the things that we think are bugs um very quickly and just declare it done but that's that's not really how we like to operate so that's why it's taking long is that we have um like we have this sort of organic community-centric approach to to building the framework um and it takes time i think it's also like yeah it's getting things right because another example is the is the error boundary uh error boundaries so there's already a working component it's kind of community driven um we have a discussion we have an rfc open about how it should work but there's no consensus on how that api should look we could just go with what's there now and see how it goes and then do another one later but that one of the reasons that for instance I like Svelte so much is because you do things kind of one way and that way is the way that works is correct and it's future-proof and a lot of other libraries have gone in a different direction to that and they have different ways of doing the same thing and whilst that's fine and maybe they deliver these things quicker it adds confusion for new users and people can join a team using this framework or that framework and not know the way that they as a team use that framework is different to how they've used in the past. Either it's an older way or a new way or something like that. So I think it really pays off in the longer run, even though it may look like we're delaying and sort of bike-shedding in the short term, that these decisions are made correctly and the API is solidified in the best possible way, given constraints at the time. People dramatically underestimate the difficulty of changing API once it's shipped and overestimate the difficulty of changing implementation details. and it's better to get the right API and the wrong implementation than the other way around. Makes sense. All right any other questions before we move on to Svelte Summit No congrats All right Yeah congratulations on the job This is great Svelte Really exciting Yep, extremely. So Svelte Summit is two weeks away. That's exciting. We have close to 50 talks. That's a lot. But we're not going to show all of them at the event, unfortunately. There's not enough time. we don't want a 24-hour event well actually that could be kind of fun at some point so we're gonna we're gonna host like a couple of mini events every week after so on wednesdays is the plan for now and i'm gonna host where i'll probably show like five or six talks each week didn't get into the main event kind of that makes sense so that's exciting we have music by a guy called fractal he also did the music to svelte radio that's cool and uh yeah there's a lot of interest in svelte summit this time around i've noticed like compared to last time it's it's just nuts svelte must have grown so much since last like since april which is super exciting i guess uh I guess we can talk a bit about the watch parties, right? You booked something? Yeah, I went ahead and booked. We really wanted to book 61 Local, which is the bar that Svelte was launched. But they're still not open for some weird reason. And so we're booking something next door. I haven't been to this place, but I sent them a lot of money. So we'll hopefully have a nice time. Yeah, so if you're in New York or the U.S. East Coast, you're totally welcome to sign up. We'll probably put something in the show description, or you could just hit me up. And yeah, Rich will be there. I think Yishamal is coming together with some of our cell people. And it will just be a Svelte party. I think the idea is basically that I wanted to ease us back into some kind of in-person thing. Eventually, we want to have an in-person Svelte summit. Maybe Sweden, maybe Singapore, I don't know. Because they are S.R.I.V.S. very important um but but i thought i thought new york would be the easiest to start with and like a small event yeah i'm really looking forward to that i think it's it's a nice venue and it a great neighborhood and people should come and hang out it in like the middle of the day right it like 12 to 4 i think 12 12 because uh because we have to sync with the rest of the world if we want to make this work exactly so yeah kev i think it's what time is it your time uh four or five gmt something like that yeah yeah something like that um i'll have to check yeah yeah so so i think the event goes until like nine or ten or eleven i don't i don't quite remember i should i should know this well we We said four hours and we'll just pick some talks that kind of fit in that time frame. But yeah, one of the things that we really wanted to do was we hated getting people to apply for Salt Summit and then having to reject them. And actually not knowing. It's kind of like a weird, this traditional cutoff point is arbitrary because it dates back to when we had in-person conferences. And when we have online conferences, the shelf is infinite. and actually we should think about moving back the cutoff point further into like, let's have people submit videos. And if it's good, if it's worth featuring within that four-hour period, then let's do that. But then also we want to recognize the other talks as well. So we have a YouTube and we have so many people interested in talking about it as well. We should feature them. Yeah, that was a good idea for sure. Yeah, I guess that's it about Svelte Summit in two weeks. Well, so there's also Germany Party. I bet there's going to be others because people are going to want to get together. I just think it's a really nice thing to get together in person and talk Svelte, build relationships that are based on Svelte, but then also you can talk about other stuff. And I think that's just really the fun part about community for me, which is always my goal with starting Svelte events and stuff like that. I think Richard also agrees there's just something to get about getting in person that you don't get online. So the German watch party, I'm not entirely sure about the status there, but I think Dominic is kind of sort of organizing that or helping out at least. So if you're in Germany, you should probably reach out to him or join the German Svelte Society Discord. there's a German Discord yeah but I mean just generally if you're organizing one just get in touch with us let us know so we can get people to you I think something that we serve as as a society is that we're at a central point that people can find each other

 All right. So next year, I'm sort of thinking about maybe trying to get an in-person event going. I'm probably going to call it Svelte Summit Summer Edition something. And in my head, I'm kind of imagining like a retro 80s vibe thing, which would be pretty cool. So I'm currently looking at venues over here in Stockholm, which is probably the easiest for me as an organizer to sort out rather than having to travel around the world and checking out places all over. But nothing is set in stone, so we'll see. Probably in August. And yeah, more info after the fall of it, of course. Wow, this is real now. It is, it is, yeah. I can't wait for a real, proper in-person Svelte Summit. I've been longing for one for over a year. so i'm very excited yeah that'll be fun all right any anything else um i think it's an open secret there's just a documentary going on yeah should we talk about oh yeah or should we edit this out i mean it's it's in the um i think you let the cat out of the bag show when you included it in the in the invite to the watch party i had to work i had to warn people because we were planning because yeah um yeah yeah so i i mean i don't know for certain that the crew is going to be there for for the watch party maybe you do maybe you've had a conversation with them about that but yes they are oh okay they are going to be there um yeah so the the same people that not the same company but the people who work for the company that made the documentaries about ember and view and graphql and various other things they're now making a documentary about svelte apparently it was uh highly requested and so i believe they've already interviewed a bunch of people i think they interviewed you anthony yeah yeah they did also they've done a few yeah a few countries they've done in europe um i yeah they're based in europe so yeah they're they're just doing the new york ones yeah yeah there was some some visa thing they couldn't get to the US before now and I think they had a lot of trouble getting to London as fact as well I think everything been just fraught with visas and problems i mean i getting a tiny bit of an insight into the logistics involved in producing a documentary and i mean i i thought conferences seemed hard but this this seems yeah same um so anyway i i believe that they're coming out here next weekend to shove a camera in my face which i'm absolutely dreading i i can't exactly not be in the svelte documentary so what do you mean it could be the unauthorized documentary like this did not have the participation of the svelte creators there's there's a lot of there's a lot of setup for cameras and stuff and it's really fascinating to watch it is uh all the lighting concerns and everything else like that because it shows if you watch these documentaries apparently the budget is even better than if you watch the previous documentaries that they've produced I mean it's crazy the amount of effort they put into making that picture look good and stuff there's only so much they can do about me the point is the environment looks great yeah I did four hours of makeup no I'm joking yeah I didn't do any makeup am i just naturally woke up like this i think that's what it is no they didn't need makeup they drew the line of makeup they uh what we did do was spend ages adjusting my hue lights in here to be the right level of white which is which i think is great yeah it's just really it's really interesting like it's that important to be the right the right shade of white the right tint it was a lot of fun i thought at least very yeah very weird in a way yes intimidating in a way but also i mean i suppose you know everything is really it's just a life experience i'm looking forward to it i've never had this this level of professionalism and sort of video videography so I'm curious to see what they do with us. Yeah. All right. Should we move on to unpopular opinions? All right. Let's. Anthony always has one. Anthony just calls out opinions It true It true They unpopular They just opinions Yeah every opinion I have is unpopular So my unpopular opinion this week is that Docs which is like the Mac OS X doc and the Ubuntu doc and every other doc ever, even the start menu thing that Windows has, I don't understand why they exist. I think on Mac it's called Spotlight, but for me it's like the Windows and Space key, and it brings up like an overview. and you can type programs and you run them that for me is how you run programs you switch with alt tab or you just hit again the windows key whatever the meta key on the keyboard and it brings up an overview of all the windows and you choose one so what's the dock for apart from like losing half of your really expensive retina monitor i can't see the purpose of that being there it gets in the way it takes space i just i never got it and i was actually really i'm a massive fan of gnome 3 i've used it for a long time and i like it because it's minimalist there's nothing taking the space on the screen it's just one little tiny bar at the top with a time on it and for some reason ubuntu decided to put the dock in there and all it is is a hindrance and i have to run a program every time i install ubuntu to remove it again because it's just i never ever touch it it's just taking up my expensive monitor space so so my basic my opinion is why on earth do people have docks what do people use them for um i would agree with that i kind of like the doc but more as a like a visual thing so it looks like right so it's a get a sticker get a sticker and stick on your laptop well you can you can kind of see like which programs are active i guess i don't know why is that important i don't know i can see everyone thinking like what do i use a doc for I use it for minimized applications. Like if I have a bunch of Chrome windows and I want to minimize one of them, like keep it out of the way if I'm doing a screen recording or something, I put it there. Also, I have no idea how to access my trash folder other than via the doc. But everything else, I totally agree. Get rid of it. Oh, really? I'm sure it's possible. I just can't be bothered to. Wait, so yeah. I mean, so trash is like a, on mine, it's just like a folder in the file system. and you can empty it but minimize windows right if i hit the meta key all my minimize windows also show in that overview and if i hit it again they'll disappear and they're still minimized but they not like they not on my screen at some point with you know taking up space when i when i using my machine in full screen I guess Yeah Maybe it different on Mac than it happens in a while I agree with you which makes me think that this opinion is not unpopular Not unpopular. Just an opinion. It's unpopular enough that Mac have one, like, and Ubuntu insisted on having one, and I don't know why. And the new Windows 11 apparently is just like Mac OS. It's got a dock in the middle rather than a start bar or something. so it has to be somewhat unpopular well it does look nice that's probably it probably sells computers i'll buy you a sticker i'll put you a little sticker with a duck on it oh i i was so jealous of the of the documentary people they they they had svelte stickers and i i don't have svelte stickers oh yeah yeah oh i think i may have some we should probably You can just print your own. Merchandising at some point. The logo's on there. Yeah, but you end up with... Svelte tattoos. Oh. Oh, nice. Is this an audio podcast or is the... You're recording a video. It is, unfortunately. Okay, so I'll have to describe it. For my leaving view from the Times, a friend made these black metal spelt tattoos and we all put them on our hands. One guy put it on his forehead because... because he's like that why not yeah of course you don't have to walk around with it for the next few days if you don't go to the watch party covered in those i'll be disappointed um i guess my turn so i don't know how popular or unpopular this is but i have read a bunch of things online where they say that you should not put anything or too much in pre-commit hooks and pre-commit hooks for those who don't know are basically um when you check anything where commit, like git commit something like a file. It runs some code, for example, like linting or testing to make sure that every commit going into the library or the git history is valid. You're not allowed to check in invalid code. And I struggled with that for a while. I tried it out because one of the things that I always forget to do, I always forget to do, is I forget to run run linting and Prettier, right? Prettier is fine because it never blocks, but linting is a pain. And then I don't run a test suite, but I could. And it's a form of linting or testing. And I struggled with this recently, especially this week where I lost an hour trying to commit to Git.

 Because I couldn't get my linting correct. And at the end of the day, the only way I could do it was I disabled YesLint. I committed it. I just got it up there. And I said, do not merge this until I fix the linting thing. But it was so annoying. It was so productivity destroying. And I think it was good for me. Because I struggled with it now rather than later. So you couldn't commit because your lint wouldn't pass. So you couldn't push. Is that correct? And I was trying to be done with my day. It was like at 6 p.m. I was like, shit, I want to leave and go do my own personal stuff. So I was frustrated that whole hour. I was just like, oh, my God, this linting and TypeScript combination doesn't work. I was doing a monorepo setup. All the sorts of complexities, right? And I was complaining in my company stack. I was like, why do we have this stupid pre-commit hook? Who did it? and a co-worker reminded me that i put it in i really had that classic like good blame who is this you hang on a minute i thought your unpopular opinion was the the hooks are good but you've just spent five minutes explaining why they're terrible the experience was terrible but i think it's the right move for the long-term health of the project i i mean i would agree with that my my my beef with pre-commit hooks is that you can't check in the hooks themselves i mean you can there's like ways to do it but like they're in a they're in the dot git folder which means they're not part of the repo and i've never understood why that's the case yeah someone explain it to me like i'm five i think it's just git i think i think it's a belief of of linus that you know pre-commit hooks are a personal thing rather than a team thing something something the standard way to do it in javascript is using husky which does commit it yeah so that's what i just moves it out into a separate folder that you can check in yeah but that's like a whole new movie so so oh but it is but actually it's quite it kind of gets out of the way husky i really i was resistant to installing it but i i also use it for linting and everything and it's it's really good because just make sure you always run lint and i don't get broken builds on ci but sean are you using husky then did you say The new one, not the... You can just do dash, dash, dash, dash, no, dash, verify. You can but that just kicks the can down the road And imagine if you merge that in The next guy coming along trying to run their linting is going to have their day ruined for something that not their fault right so you say basically you wanted to disable it so that it was disabled within the pr i think so i i reserve the right to change my mind okay uh because like there's a there's a real sense of lost productivity that just came out of nowhere just because like i you know i'm just trying to commit like this should be a modular unix philosophy small contained thing and suddenly i'm running my entire my entire test suite or my linting suite and maybe that's not his job so i don't know fair enough all right um i don't have a non-popular opinion rich do you do you have one i i do um there are too many programming podcasts oh no i thought i was i was really may as well lean into the unpopular aspect of this present company excluded of course i i i will always listen to um to anything that has kevin's asmr voice but uh but in general like i i'm scrolling through twitter and like everyone's been on this podcast and that podcast and like i i am never going to be able to listen to a fraction of these i am actually kind of bewildered by just how many podcasts there are they're all sponsored it's it's it's bewildering to me so my unpopular opinion is that just just too damn many programming podcasts i could i'll tell you one thing um that i'm being pushed to do now me and my ceo in fact to my uh my co-founder more podcasts or be appear on the podcast because of two reasons one is good to be seen as a thought influencer uh in terms of funding circles and the other one is because backlinks that you'll get from a podcast to your website are very powerful especially if the site is well respected the podcast is well respected so actually there may be a reason why people just try and get on every podcast he's talking about talking so much about interesting yeah it's like the number of podcasts to go on rather than like the going on the podcasts. Like I would be deeply hypocritical. Right, right, right. Otherwise, because I've been on more than my fair share of podcasts. God knows why. Like, I don't know. I don't know why I get invited on these things. I just say the same things every time. But the fact that there are so many podcasts to go on is I i don know i just confused by it it kind of exploded the whole podcasting scene probably it probably not just programming podcasts right it's probably podcasts of every every genre but it's kind of gone in waves hasn't it because podcasts were really popular like tens of years ago when they first came out and i can't remember how you subscribe to them or whatever then back then i thought that's interesting and then ignored it and then probably like four years ago five years ago suddenly there's a massive explosion again yeah yeah the resurgence was uh actually also because of the new york times i think or maybe npr um because of serial um and people trace that to the modern resurgence of podcasts as as someone who's who's recently started one um kind of um it basically unintentionally started because i had a chat with sunil pai scheduled uh we were just catching out over covid and he was like why not record this or um and i said yeah sure and i released it on youtube and it went over really well so i'm just going to carry on with it it's a really nice way to get uh long-form conversations about tech, which like, imagine if you're working in like, you know, a medium sized company, everyone's kind of heads down on tech stuff. You don't have any social friends to talk about programming with. This is a way to plug into that center circle of technology where like, you know, people making the thing that you never get a chance to talk to, you get to hear from them. I can see that as a very strongly appealing thing. I've been in a situation before where I didn't know anyone and this is the only way to to get to know people and so any port in a storm and I think podcasts enable the human side of technology so that's that's why I listened to that conversation and I did enjoy it I will always enjoy listening to the conversations that are happening like between people I know particularly or like people in the industry that I look up to and so I do appreciate that podcasting has made those conversations so much more accessible yeah Rich, here are any industries you look up to. That's an interesting point. No, I'm interested. I'm generally interested. Wow. I... Oh, God. I kind of don want to start listing names because I going to Non You know no particular order I think to get in your head someone i can i think some of the some of the people that uh i most interested in hearing from are the people who have opinions that i often don't agree with like brian larue is a good example of someone who like i i i frequently like disagree with him but he's um he's so experienced and so articulate about, um, about his opinions that I find him like an interesting source. Um, although I don't know if he does a whole lot of podcasting, but, um, I think that to me is the value of, um, of the medium is that you, when you're listening to someone talk over a period of time, um, about their opinions, it's much easier to sort of get into the new ones than um than when you're consuming via blog posts and tweets and things which are so sort of edited down um the all of the good stuff is squeezed out of them yeah yeah i particularly like like the longer form uh format of podcasts like i don't know the like the lex friedman podcast is pretty good it's like two three hour episodes with just interesting people. Yeah. Something I really have come to subscribe to is that there is too much content online, but people hunger for quality and they will sit down and listen to a three-hour podcast if it's good. And you have to capture their attention and you have to make sure that you're authentically exploring something that's genuinely interesting to you and to the audience. and a lot of podcasters, a lot of content creators, they start out just kind of doing more of the same. And sometimes that just doesn't make a dent. So I really like what people, I forget who I'm quoting, but the guy who pointed this out was that, was like, yeah, like people will sit down and read like a 17 page article or blog post on Elon Musk written by WaitButWhy. And that's just because he's very good at explaining things. But they don't have time for your three-paragraph blog post because it didn't make a point. So I don't know. There's a very high peak and a long tail. All right. Picks? Picks.

 i'll i'll go first since i didn't have a an opinion so the new macbook pros they're amazing did you uh how long have you had one so i got mine i think last friday uh yeah last week um anthony's showing uh it's unpacked or not unpacked still in the box or is that the wife still in the box no it's staying unpacked it's in the box it's staying there uh it's not for me it's for an employee you should get one yourself i i really want m1 but i need linux to work on it first that's true like like fully reusable it's it's very nice uh instead of like heating up and sounding like a jet turbine it's it's actually quiet i'm actually doing this now and it's quiet if i use my like 2019 16 inch one it would just like it would heat up heat up the room it would yeah all sorts of terrible stuff so it's very nice i i can definitely recommend it they're expensive though which kind of sucks um but i i think it's worth it for for like the productivity gain rich do you have one i guess you're getting one yeah so um the the way that the cell works is they don't give you a company laptop. They have like a gear allowance. Yeah. And you're expected to choose your own laptop. And I went for the M1 Max 16-inch. Should have arrived at the end of this month. I'm looking forward to that. Nice. Yeah. Yeah, I think you're going to like it. I started my job in February. So I have like just about the last one before the MagSafe, before the physical button keys, before the better processor. But our CTO at our last all hands just mentioned that, hey, no one buy anything. We're working on a policy. And I think we're going to do what Shopify did, which Shopify bought every engineer a new Mac. Because the calculated gains, like you spend a couple thousands on a new machine, but you hopefully gain productivity. And for people doing really compute intensive stuff, I think it matters a lot. Also matters for morale. I don't know if you saw, Jared Palmer did a calculator for how quickly you will recoup the cost of a new laptop He did a calculator ah yeah yeah i read this one nice yeah i kind of like the the thing that you can you can get a like a top line spec into 14 inch you couldn't really do that before so if you like like a smaller form factor that's easier to carry around it's you can still get like that powerhouse um yeah we we we got funding just before the new Macs came out. So I ordered M1s for everybody. So about 20 M1s, a bunch of errors for like business type people and a bunch of the pros for developers just because they had different requirements. I mean, I'm not Mac use myself, but I can probably have a fairly good stab at fixing some problem on a Mac. Whereas on Windows, I just couldn't. So yeah, you know, I would love to give a budget people and say buy your own stuff, but I'm a bit fearful of maybe having to debug things on platforms. I don't really know. That makes sense. All right. Next up, Anthony, what's this? Right. So this is like a pick and a controversial opinion because it's about cryptocurrency. And I know we have two people who will vehemently disagree with me on this sort of stuff. But if February 2019, you had more than, I think it's 14 followers on GitHub. At the time when they launched this, you were due about one uh four thousand pounds worth of uh for four thousand dollars worth of handshake token it's now currently sitting about two thousand dollars worth i think of this podcast time but basically you basically sign a payload with your with your private key you put your public key you'll get public key it notices you had these files at that time and then it grants you the tokens to your wallet so you just basically get two grand for free which i think is all right What world are we living in? What is this? Can I take that $2,000 and spend it on something that I want? Yeah, you can just swap it for the dollars that you want. I think Rich is about to do this for the first time. Yeah, yeah. Rich is going to do it. He's going to do it. I'm going to steal it. All of these things that I've seen in the past, like, yeah, you get some free crypto. Then what? Well, yeah, it's not real unless it changes hands. It's awesome. And it changes hands. So that's the point he's making. Well the one thing about this token is you can use an exchange wallet as your airdrop location So it goes straight into an exchange You immediately click trade trade all the dollars and take it out cash into your bank account so it uh pretty straightforward if you want if you just want the money it's rich it's rich about to get into crypto which is like i can see we can see his decision his decision face now How many trees do you burn when you do this? Well, so I think, and I'm not 100% sure, but I think Handshake is one of these ones that's not proof of work. I think it's a proof of stake, but I could be wrong on that. I just remember being with you about it. I'm obviously like, I'm pretty like anti-tree burning and stuff, but I'm also pretty pro-cryptocurrency, so I will fully admit to owning a lot of tokens that aren't proof of work. From the Handshake FAQ page, does this promote carbon emissions? handshake uses proof of work mining as it is currently the most reliable way to do compact like proofs so yes i will not be claiming my two thousand dollars of monopoly money well just just the evidence of proof of work doesn't mean that it's super inefficient there are probably more efficient ways to do it than bitcoin does but uh that's a different discussion but the point is the peripheral let's not do this uh anyway so free currency if you don't mind uh the end of the planet uh moving on um yeah so this was this is a project on hacker news that i found i'm not a big font guy i don't like fancy ligatures i just go with like whatever west boss set up when i was learning to code and that's been set up ever since then and and so i've never figured myself for a font guy until I came across this project, codingfont.com. And it basically just gives you like a hot or not, like a mashup between like 30 something different fonts. You just choose left, right, left, right, left, right until you pick the top one. And mine was Azuray Pro, which I never thought I had an opinion on. So it's a nice way to discover a new font that you may really enjoy. Cool. Nice little pick there. All right. I mean, it showed me fire a code straight away, and I blooming love that font. So that was it That was easy I actually like these little utilities They very self and you discover something about yourself all right last pick do you have one rich soup i what what kind of soup it like soup in general um because you know working from home making food a lot more and particularly now that it's it's full uh i i've i've just recently got on the soup train because it's so easy to make like a good batch of soup and it's something that's like it tastes great it's very nutritious and you get like multiple meals out of it and it's really easy to make to make the soup as well if you have like the immersion blender whatever um what is this i'm sorry what immersion what is an immersion blender it's the one where um like it's a handheld thing like so you'll have like your dutch oven or whatever with all over your ingredients and then you put that in and like whisk it around sort of and then it blends everything in the pot rather than you having to take the ingredients and put them in a blender which never works because like you've got more ingredients than will fit in the blender and it just makes a huge mess and you've got all of this stuff to clean the immersion blender is as much more convenient oh you're immersing in a pot like a blender on a stick yeah cool it's pretty nice yeah nice i like food picks I'm the only one that picked food until now that's nice yeah like food pick I think that's it any last thoughts or other things to say go team I feel like we're all slowly being dragged into this felt universe like even Rich going full time Kevin is kind of full time now Anthony has always been building with Svelte and I I didn't have a Svelte project until I got to my current company and we decided on Svelte for our app. And I think it's just interesting to see the adoption. I think if you go back like a year in this podcast archives, maybe like there'll be a huge contrast that you don't see day to day. But in the course of a year, it's a lot of movement. For sure. Yeah. Thanks for coming on, Rich. We always enjoy your company. And see you all at Svelte Summit, I guess. See you there. Yep. Bye. See you then. Take care. Bye. Bye.