 This episode was recorded on December 7th with Ron Au. Enjoy. Try out Vercel today to experience the easiest way to use Svelte. Welcome to Svelte Radio. Hey, it's Svelte Radio again. I'm back with my beautiful co-hosts, Brittany and Sean. Anthony's not here, but he's also beautiful. And today we have a guest. It's none other than Mr. Floating Head, Ron Au. How do you pronounce it? If you ever forget, just hit yourself in the arm and that's the sound you make. Awesome. So, hi, Ron. Welcome to Svelte Radio. Howdy. Lovely to be here. Thanks for coming. So I've been knocked out by a cold, as you've heard, so I haven't done anything. But yeah, so let's talk with our guest, Ron. Who are you? That is a very big question that I've been trying to answer my whole life. For you in the tech industry, I am a front-end engineer. That's the title. I work for Hugging Face, which if you guys were ever listening last week, Penguin was on, who is also at Hugging Face. We're both on the product front-end team. I touch a little bit of AI in that realm. I'm also studying data science on the side. But mainly I work in the front-end and web dev space. Most people know me from the neck up, from talks I did with just my head. And I like to focus, when I have the autonomy and luxury, underline the second one to do whatever I want. I tend to like to do more creative stuff in the web dev space Before we continue with the episode here a word from our sponsor Vercel Vercel is the platform for front developers providing the speed and reliability innovators need to create at the moment of inspiration Founded by the creators of Next.js, Vercel has zero configuration support for 35 plus front-end frameworks, including SvelteKit. We enable the world's largest brands like Under Armour, eBay, and Nintendo to iterate faster and create quality software. Try out Vercel today to experience the easiest way to use Svelte. Yeah, the floating head talk, it's infamous in the Svelte community. So if you're a new listener and maybe new to the Svelte community, I urge you to go back to Ron's talk. I think it's called Web LMOde. Correct. Was it recorded during maybe 2021, spring maybe? 2020 March, in fact. Way back on. Yeah, I was like, I think that was longer ago. 2020, wow. Yeah, I can't believe it's taken this long to get you on the podcast. Yeah. I mean, I have tried. I have tried. Yes, props to Kevin. It's taken some convincing. But here we are, finally. Finally. The funny thing is, when I did that talk, I wasn't even in the industry yet. I was still doing my older government multimedia job. So let's talk about that. So you were in multimedia in the government somehow. Well, first off, you're in Australia, right? Yes, correct on one day. Yes, yeah. Yep. All right. So rewinding even further back, when I set out to have a career, not just a job, journalism was the thing on my mind and engineering was very far off it in fact I still remember the spot in high school when we're thinking about electives and software engineering came up I remember thinking in my head I would never want to be a software engineer it's not my cup of tea not up my alley not easy choice scratch that one right off so into journalism I went and specifically print journalism which is newspapers magazines all that jazz and I wanted to do long form as well But if any of you have been keeping abreast of how that industry is going, the writing's been on the wall for over a decade now. And I kind of did a half pivot. So multimedia is I worked in the newsroom for Australian police state police called New South Wales Police Force And that was you know one foot in the journalism realm and then one foot in kind of the tech you know, video editing, audio, a little bit of web dev. And that kind of paved my way for software as well. I've always thought of all the self-teaching I did with software. It was more along the lines of how necessity is a mother invention. you know, I'd find a little bit of thing that code could help with. You know, I wrote a lot of auto hotkey scripts back then. Then I started writing Chrome extensions to help with stuff, tiny JavaScript snippets. Then I started getting more and more. And then someone would tap me in the shoulders. Hey, Ron, you know, the web department says this is going to take 12 months to develop. Like, do you know anything about this? And I said, oh, that's, that's, they're saying 12 months because it takes 11 and a half months of tape to get through, but it really takes, you know, a week to do. So I thought, oh, yeah, how about I push something that gets, you know, 95% of the way, like in a few days. And they're like, oh, that's great. And I did more and more of that stuff. And it was around, yeah, about 12, a bit over 12 months ago, I thought, hey, I've got all these coding, you know, all this coding experience here. The industry I was intending to go into isn't really panning out, but this software thing over there is looking pretty good. Uh, and it's looking like it's growing. I mean, it sounds bad saying that now in this climate, but back then, you know, it looked pretty sweet, you know, uh, and I was lucky to get in eventually. Um, so yeah, so it did. Yeah. I mean, I'm, I'm, I'm sure it's still better than, than journalism, the journalism industry, even, even now probably. Good point. Yeah, it's rough there. Like if you're really steadfast and say you don't want to do online journalism, you don't want to do like social media kind of journalism, you don't want to do clickbait journalism, like it's quite hard to just be, you know, if someone comes straight out of college saying, I want to be a long-form investigative print journalist, yeah. You know, good luck, good luck. Admirable, but good luck. I wish that was not the case. I kind of love long-form journalism. It's really nice. It's a hollowing out. For the publications I wanted to work for, three of them went bust and one went from monthly to quarterly And that was kind of always always at the back of my mind like leading up into it sean you were saying i think there a classic model called like the hollowing out of journalism where uh you either have global news and you only have the top brand names in the global news or you have local news and there's basically no room in the middle interesting it's rough i so having that journalism background and now that you are a software engineer are you enjoying it more is this like do you see your future here like do you like this i definitely enjoy it more uh i think there's there's been this kind of gravity towards it like i when i felt like i said when i first did that talk i wasn't even in the industry and at the time I was also very reluctant to have an online presence you know to do social media to build a profile all that kind of stuff do networking and even when I signed up for the talk the uh the notion was okay I don't have any experience in this giving talks I don't really have much experience in the industry if you accept my call for a proposal that's on you you know you know I've written this you know I'm not saying you have to take me but if you do well that's that's on you no matter how bad or inexperienced or unuseful my talk is uh but once i did it you know to my great surprise like people actually really enjoyed it and i found that i actually enjoyed it as well and then i started doing other talks meeting other people and then actually joining the industry because at the time i get the talk i wasn't even thinking of joining industry just yet i was it was still like on the mind but i wasn't like applying or anything like that uh that definitely pushed me over the edge and since then yeah i and even my wife says you know like she's noticed that this feels like you know more like i'm a fish in water here than in journalism it's it's nice to hear that you've you really started like enjoying it and i think you found a place that you thrive in too because your talks are infamous almost like we love your talks and we expect them at every conference now yeah there's a i've been like there's been a double-edged sword uh with the rear edge mostly dull because it's mostly been positive like there's this expectation that whenever i hop on stage i'm going to be funny uh right very i think very recently what was it yeah i gave a talk the other week i gave a online talk at a meetup about uh using whimsy and css and my one of my

 one of the boxes I want to tick was don't write a script in order to be funny. So just be very content oriented. Just talk about that and like, don't make any effort to be funny. Like if it comes naturally while I'm talking, you know, cause I don't just read off a script by all means, but don't try to be funny. And that was a little bit of like a, like a weight off my, not a weight off my shoulder, but a breath, a breath of slightly fresh air. And I say this with this game, I always enjoy doing the funny stuff anyway. And it's not like a burden. It's not like, oh, I wish I wasn't going to typecast as this. I very much enjoy that. But it's nice to not do that for every single one. And yeah, it's nice to do different things. This is a little bit of an aside, but do you follow Jay's work for Whimsy? J-H-E-Y? Oh, yeah, absolutely. I've said this to Sean in the past. Jay's one of the people who gives me imposter syndrome the most. And I generally don't get imposter syndrome, but when I see his stuff, yeah, I think, oh, man. I think I'm creative. Yeah, that's creative. I mean, he's just insanely talented. But for the listeners that don't know, that's JH3Y on Twitter, I think. Jay Tompkins? Jay Tompkins, yeah. Yes, yep. If you see a bear with glasses, you're in the right place. He is now a dev rel at Chrome. Working on a Chrome team, yeah. Oh, bringing Wimsy to Google Chrome, maybe. Who knows? I guess Google DevRel? I don't know. Like, is it Google or Chrome? I mean, they're the same company, but they're educating on CSS. Yeah. I wonder if he is on the same team as Adam Argyle, probably? As Yuna and Adam, yeah. Gotcha. Yeah. Right. That makes sense. That's a good fit. That's a good match. Yeah. Right. So you were at the New South Wales, was it? New South Wales Police Force. Yeah. So doing all this random stuff, web dev, editing videos, social media as well, or just more content? Yeah. So what's the step here from doing this floating head talk on, sorry, web a la mode, I'm going to call it by the title. and then doing that talk, still being at the police force. And then where do we go from here I think that when I started appreciating getting to know people and doing talks So that same year I did a talk on accessibility in Australia And, you know, once it started entering my mind that I might do this more seriously, you know, it then dawned on me that I need to also take it seriously. You know, writing a bit of fun CSS here and there is good for like a code pen. But, you know, if you're trying to do a job or be in production or whatever, you've got to, there's a certain like threshold you need to at least, you know, meet before you. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So I figured, okay, I need to cover my bases. And I'm not sure if you all know. Oh, gosh, I'm having a mind blank. It's early in the morning here. Josh. Josh. Josh. That's it. That's it. Yeah. he had something similar to carpal tunnel syndrome where he wasn't able to use his computer, which was a big issue. Sean, I think you were talking about this on last week's or a previous week's episode, how it's rough being a developer, typing and having that cause you pain when that's... Yes. Yeah. And he was looking into voice-assisted typing and developer work as well. and he, you know, he used a combined, you know, voice activation things. He used an eye tracker to use his pupils to move the cursor around. And so that really opened my eyes. In fact, that's, you know, normally we think of accessibility. We think of someone who, you know, has mobility issues because they're born that way or they're injured. You don't often think, oh, a developer themselves has entered circumstances which has made them require accessibility considerations. And that was a big eye-opener. And I figured, okay, I need to, you know, get rid of some presumptions about accessibility here. So I signed up to that talk 10% hoping they wouldn't accept it because I didn't know everything about what I was going to talk about when I did the CFP. So when they did accept it, I think, okay, right, well, now I've got to research this thoroughly. And that often a way to get my butt up to study and learn something you know commit to it and then be forced to carry it through Yeah And then yeah that my way of learning That interesting I kind of do the same thing I used a lot of the like a lot of the meetups here in Stockholm and talks here as a way of like forcing myself to learn the stuff or even just like the talks or streams that I've been doing online. It's a good way to experiment with an idea and almost force yourself into like learning something new. Just if you have a thought about something, just putting in CFPs for that and doing that. Charlie Gerard is another person in that space that's been doing a lot with like AI learning and she uses her mind to like do Figma design and stuff. She's great. She was actually at a, so my first talk was in 2020 March, but last week I went to my first in-person Australian conference after two and a half years of dealing with conference and all that. And it sounds crazy because I live in Australia and I've been involved in conferences for so long, but, you know, COVID and all that. It was Web Direction Summit run by John Alsop. It's probably the biggest web dev conference in Australia. And that was actually, I might be skipping, you know, ahead in topics here, but it was really nice, just the community aspect and seeing people here. You guys all remember Tejas from Svelte Summit. He was listening. He emceed the most recent conference in Sweden. He was there. So it was kind of like a nice, you know, turning of the tables, you know, me flying from Australia to Sweden and then him coming all the way to Australia and all that. So it made, after two years of COVID and online talks and meeting people online, just seeing people in person, like it just felt more human. And that kind of made me, that kind of reminded me why I started enjoying the industry in the first place. Right. Yeah. All right. So, yeah, so you've done a bunch of talks and then you went from the police force. Where did you head off next? Because I assume you just, you started working in the industry, I assume, at some point. Yeah. Yeah. So continuing on with the networking thing, I landed my first job in the industry through Twitter, believe it or not. I discovered the animation panel in Chrome DevTools which if you weren fully aware of it you know you wouldn be aware of it unless you stumbled across it like me I don even recall how I found it I think I was just clicking around exploring you know doing what do you call it spelunking you know There's a lot in there. There's a lot, right? There are a lot of tabs and panes. You know, those three vertical dots, man, they're unassuming, but there's a lot under there. Down the rabbit hole you went. Exactly. And I found the animation panel where you can pause CSS animation, slow them down and all that. Just quite a little video. Andy Bell, another great developer in the UK, he just retweeted that. And someone in an Australian startup who was looking for front-end engineers saw that because they followed Andy Bell. And then they just got in touch with, hey, we're looking for engineers. Are you interested? We chatted and started working for them. Oh, nice. Yeah, so random. Yeah, so random, but more so than that, very fortunate on my part. Yeah, yeah. All right. So, and then you, I guess you continued working for them for a while and. And then now I'm at Hugging Face, which is a nice thing because that company, they worked with Vue, which is, which is nice to work with actually. But, you know, there's a certain part of the title of this podcast, the first half, which is the reason why we're here. Hugging Face, as you know, uses felt. So I was very happy to land that role. So what kind of stuff do you work on at Hugging Face? I know Pete, sorry, Penguin. He works on, yeah, his real name, Penguin. So he works on Gradio, right? Is that the same team that you're on or are you on a different one? So we're broadly in the front end team. His focus is on Gradio. I've made a few PRs for Gradio, but the main projects we work on is one called Inference Endpoints. It's where if you want to productionize a model to get a REST API, you don't have to worry about all the hosting stuff or the scaling. You just pick what you want, choose whether you want a CPU, how beefy it is, whether it's GPU, how beefy it is, and how many redundancy scaling replicas you want. and then you just get, you know, you send normal post requests and get inference instead of having to set up your own Python or fast API backend for all that.

 And then on the main website, you know, I help out here and there. But yeah, I'm kind of doing front ends all over the joint. Yeah. I guess you're enjoying that? Yeah. I mean, first off, like, the Svelte aspect is nice, but the company tends to be a nice place to be at. I mean, think about it. If your company's called Hugging Face, you can't be too serious. and that's definitely the kind of vibe I I'm looking for in a company uh and they've been very generous allowing me to work Australian hours uh I don't have to wake up you know the crack of dawn to be awake for European or American folks yeah I don't know how many folks like work remotely with these async teams and it is so difficult with the time zones like trying to coordinate with teams so that is like a nice thing that they allow you like you don't have to get up and do like a kickstart at midnight your time or some crazy. Yeah. The all hands are a bit rough. They're at 2 or 3 a.m. usually, but that's like once a quarter, so I can accept that. Yeah. So we should probably mention that Ron is up at like 1 a.m. Is it 2 a.m. even now? Oh, for this, yeah. It's 1.49 a.m. as of now. Oh, my God. Sorry about that. No, it's not the worst. I had to run some talks at 3 a.m. earlier in the year. So this is all right. This is all right. It's not that late or early, I guess. I think it's something you may have to deal with more than others. Just being in Australia, I think the time zones are just so different from most of the rest of the world that it's hard for you. Yeah. But the thing is, you get what you pay for, especially in this industry. If I decided to constrain myself to Australian hours and Australian folks, there are so many, I mean, all of you, yeah, literally all three of you, I wouldn't have met you or at least gotten to know you if I stuck to that. And even though like on the odd occasion, you know, I might get zombie eyes in the morning, what I get in return is these great relationships. That is so true. That's an awesome thing to say. I guess Sean now too is over in sort of that part of the world, right? Yeah, he's a lot closer. Yeah. I travel a lot. You working your opposite nine to five again Yeah exactly But I mean that the beauty of tech It shrinks the world you know And hopefully, they will shrink the galaxy or whatever. Yeah. I think about this a lot. Like, you know, in science fiction, every planet has like one identity instead of every country having one identity. And I think it's nice, probably, that you stop emphasizing really petty differences between countries. Yeah, I guess a downside to not having countries would be kind of the culture would disappear. I kind of, well, I mean, it doesn't happen. i advocate for as many people if you have the capability to travel and see the world and other cultures to do it because i think that is the best learning experience to see how other people like truly live and believe like so you don't have these facades up of like how the rest of the world actually looks you go and you see it and you experience it yeah and it does differ a lot Not to put it down on things, but I reckon the reason in all these sci-fi novels we see these completely unified planets is because the authors were too lazy to write complex cultures and differences in complex cultures. Probably true, yeah. But no, so like, you know, I got into this a little bit recently because I was saying I've become an English maxi. Like there's just now that machines can easily translate between different languages, there's no point learning any other language. English is the best English one. rough but mostly true like duolingo is like a 10 billion dollar company it should it should not exist oh that's is that your unpopular opinion today sure okay fine yeah i wonder if like you know like how people like even back in the day when latin was long did people study Latin just for like scratching the intellectual itch? Do you think like in, you know, a thousand years, we'll all learn Spanish or Chinese just because it's a, it's a fun thing to do. Is that where you think we're going, Sean? Yeah probably like so okay I mean the realistically realistic difference is there will always be local differences between the way that we speak Even within England or the UK there like all different variations of languages and some of them you can even understand each other. Right. So humans inherently want to be different and will, will be different. But I think we can probably start from a, what is that? What's Brittany showing us in the screen? Is that your Duolingo streak? I have a 237 day streak. For learning Spanish. Spanish. But like, you know, don't kid yourself. Like it's entertainment rather than being functionally fluent. Yeah. Languages are fun. I kind of like them. I feel like it's something too that you have to be in the culture and speak with people too. Like even learning on Duolingo, I feel like I know a lot of words, but I don't feel like I could have a conversation. Yeah. Yeah, it's kind of, it's interesting with like the, like, like the English is kind of winning. Because I think it is as well. Like even here in Sweden, like, like all the youngsters, they're using more and more English words in their vocabulary, right? And you're going and you're, and I'm here like, like an old grumpy man, like, why don't you use the Swedish word? There's a Swedish word for this. and I catch myself like I probably shouldn't do that like you you can you have a right to your own language I mean that's pride in your language but I was talking to uh Tim Benix and Engie from Uniform and so Tim's in France and Engie's in Germany and I said something similar that I think English is like it's amazing that these countries are like adopting English and you learn it from such a young age and you're bilingual or trilingual, depending on where you're at, you learn all these languages. And they're like, you know what, in these countries, like it's really not that way. Like in France and Germany, like especially in the countryside in France, they're very proud of their language and they speak it. And in Germany, it's not common for people to speak that much English. So it's surprising a little bit to me. Yeah. It's a bit of a meme. Like the, like people here say that, like, if you go to the countryside in France and you, even if they know English, they won't speak it with you. They won't. Yeah. Which is, that's rough. But yeah. And then as soon as you try to speak some French they help you out I guess because they say that you trying I don know if it true I think that just based on Tim experience he from Amsterdam or the Netherlands So he speaks Dutch originally, but he speaks English. And then he moved to the countryside in France from Paris where he could speak English. And then he has had to teach himself like enough to get by in the countryside because nobody will speak English to him. Yeah. And I guess it's also a thing of like the older generations are probably going to stay in the countryside and then the younger ones are moving into the cities. So, yeah, that makes sense. All right. So let's maybe get back to Svelte. I don't know. Is that a good idea? Sure. Why not? Why not? You don't have to. All right. So you've done a couple of other fun talks as well at Svelte Summit. the swoosh yeah shabam whimsy in motion is a it's a pretty cool one exploding head emoji yep yeah yeah yeah and uh yeah that one was uh see i tried it i'm trying to do different things with each talks and i know people were disappointed that there was no floating head in that second one but you know because like you know even though it's like it's been two years i'm still relatively, I don't have a large degree of a large number of talks under my belt compared to people who do this, you know, full-time or have been in the industry for a long time. So I'm still in that period where I can afford to experiment, you know, like if I was like a massive name, like, like the thing, like the, the being funny thing, like that's already kind of got, gotten away from me. Like there's that expectation, but now I can, especially online as well, I can experiment, going to do something different so with that one it was very much i want to show you know more step by step coding uh i want to have like a you know more of a project where we walk through the implementations of it and kind of fall into that that wackiness of it you know like the people are expecting something racking out okay i don't have to do any disclaimers that are going to strap yourselves in this isn't going to be that normal so even in the title i was wondering whether you guys would accept that title or not, even like having a really long one in there, words that were just onomatopoeia and the emoji, but you folks accepted it. So props to you. Yep.

 And then this year's talk, we had Squirly Tell Me Why, Ain't Nothing But A Piece of Cake. We got to sing the Backstreet Boys song as like the intro. Squirly Tell Me Why. I mean, we couldn't have gotten a better MC than someone who, I don't know, did he just teach singing? Yeah, he like did choir or something and taught the choir. And he was like, back in those days. and then you just started going off singing. It was amazing. Yeah, couldn't have asked for a better emcee for that one. Yeah, so all interesting talks. That one was about scrollytelling, right? Which is a fun, I know there's one company that does this a lot and it's Apple, right? They do, I guess it's not really, what would you call that? Scrollytelling? Sort of, yeah. Yeah, yeah. Like in terms of... When you think about scrolling from implementation and then scrolling telling from the effects and from the effects side, it's definitely scrolling. You scroll and, you know, different things happen tied to your scrolling. So yeah, by that definition, yeah, they do that a lot. In this talk, we got to see Ron die in Demon's Souls over and over again. Right, yeah. That's right. Elden Ring was my first entry into the Dark Souls series. They weren't lying when they said it was hard. I did a lot of dying. Did you finish it? No, I haven't actually. I got like 75% of my way through and the game corrupted my save. And then I just didn't have the heart to go through it. Yeah. But it was fun, you know. You know, it's like it's one of those games where, you know, it's a journey that matters, not the destination or something like that. That's what I tell myself as I cry myself to sleep anyway. Take yourself a little bit of an hour's loss. Yeah. I've got to talk out of it. I'm happy. Yeah. Yeah. I didn't manage to satisfy people's urge to see a floating head to some degree, though. I didn't have my head floating. Because people can ask me, are you going to do some green screen thing on stage and all that? And I thought about it. I thought, okay. How would that work? I could. How would that even work? And even if it did work, what is the point if you can see me in person and my torso and all that? So I had that little like scrolling thing Yeah I forgot about that The scrolling head when you scrolled like it spun around yeah yeah so many expectations oh especially uh dom at the start i don know if you folks recall but before i even got to start tom was like uh tage asked him why he was sitting at the front and he said i'm sitting at the front because this talk is going to be you know whatever Everyone says, very good, amazing, whatever. And then he said, blow us away. I'm glad it turned out well and that people enjoy the talk. So, you know, that was a good setup. But if I bombed it, you know, that'd be on him. I'd be blaming Dom. He was like, I got a seat right in the front because I know this talk is going to be amazing. That's well, yeah. Like I said before, like the people in like the community has been really nice. And I think if I'd say, if my first talk had been like a React talk where it's like much more massive, You're more of like a tiny fish in a massive, massive pond. I might not have had the same, you know, inclination to, you know, at least I wouldn't have entered the industry as rapidly or found, oh yeah, talks are great and all that. But there's something special about the Svelte community where everyone's like, everyone kind of like knows each other. Everyone's really friendly. And yeah, like what Dom did there, that's a prime example of how good the community is. I think I said in the documentary that it feels like a small town community. Like if you have this small town and you all kind of know each other and you help support each other. And that's what this felt community feels like to me. And not that we're just like tiny and not very big, but just like that's how it makes you feel. Like there's a lot of people here, but there's support and there's people that gather around you and lift you up when you need it. 100%. Yeah. Yeah. And it's going to be a challenge to keep that as we grow larger and larger. But it's definitely something that I think we should work with in mind. Like we need to keep that feeling, I think, or we could try at least somehow. I think we need to make sure that we're welcoming new people and having these events and things. And I think it will continue to grow and feel like the same thing. Yeah. So why Svelte though? Why was that the one that you started with, I guess? So when you not a software engineer by profession you have the luxury of doing whatever you like You can pick up a project and not touch it for 12 months You can write terrible code You can pick something that came out last week and make that the foundation of your entire project. And in 2019, when I first started using Svelte, it was very less proven in the industry. But that didn't matter because I was like a one-man, just doing his own thing. And I was very close to being an Imbar developer back then. Which is also like a, has a pre-compiled philosophy. And I was really getting into, you know, reading different articles in Imbar, you know, going through the getting started and all that until I read one Medium article. I have this link somewhere. I'll link it to you guys so you can have the show notes later. but in the midst of this you know imba-fueled you know frenzy there was a medium article on imba and in the comments just one person said oh this is really cool but have you have you looked at svelte and i was like oh okay i'll i'll throw it into google just to you know see what's out there you know i don't just you know run all the way to the hills with the first thing i see and then i saw a little bit liked it saw a bit more liked it more then i saw you know Rethinking Reactivity by Rich Harris liked it a lot went through the tutorial, kept liking it and pretty much kept liking it since wasn't Ember one of the ones that was up just above spelt on one of the latest surveys that came out? I don't think Ember ever got there something just edged us out like earlier this year and I swear it was Ember was it Ember? JS? So I'm saying IMBA, sorry. Oh, I'm sorry. Okay. It was like a weird amalgamation of JavaScript, Ruby, and Python syntax and all that. So I think that's why I didn't pick off. It was like a DSL by scrimba.com, which is like a video tutorial. I think I mentioned that video tutorial site a bunch of times on the podcast. It's a really cool like it's it's a have you have you guys ever seen it because if you haven't like go on to that go on to that site and just like start one of the videos and then you realize it not a video and you like well so it a very very performant very cool project in my experience at least But yeah, so you're actually not the only Svelte developer that I know that has tried out Imba. So you guys probably know Luke. He used to dabble a bit in the Imba community as far as I know. And I was actually interested in Imba as well before Svelte came out. never really used it but i feel i feel bad for in there it's kind of like uh the the the jilted partner i feel like the the hotter how long has that been around or has it like died out since no i i think it's still around yeah it's it's tiny right i think i think it just doesn't have the same momentum him yeah it also doesn't have rich harris which i think has been one key yeah exactly yeah all right so uh what excites you with svelte going forward run are there any is there anything that you're hoping to see you know i might even say it's already kind of happened you know i started using Svelte in 2019 and this year and perhaps even next year when Svelte Kick reaches 1.0, that's a validation that it was a good choice or at least the reassurance that it was an okay choice. Just not people saying, oh sure, you know, Svelte looks fun, but it's just a little toy. Everyone always says, you know, does it scale or, you know, it's not ready for production or, you know, who else is using it or how come there aren't any, um, like three JS libraries made for Svelte. You know, we hear all that all the time. And I think now that people are using it themselves, because the thing is people who use Svelte tends to end up liking it. You don't tend to see people who try it and they're like, Oh, actually, you know what? My presumptions were correct. It blows, you know? So I think it's just more of a matter of getting people to try it. Yeah. I was like, ooh. Templating. I can't have to use this. I do hear that, but I hear that from people that really haven't tried using Svelte, that they'll look at it and they're like, oh, this is like handlebars or something. And they're turned off by it. By principle or surface reasons. So I think when we get more people just trying Svelte

 So that's when you get more people liking Svelte and using Svelte. Usually the latter two, that's the hard part, getting people to like something after they've tried it. But the ramp here is really just getting people to try it for themselves and form their own opinions, which I think this year in particular has already happened. I did a whole talk on that called Starting with Svelte, and it's why you should just try it. Yeah. And it's so easy to try as well. people love the tutorial with the REPL the tutorial there's the Svelto's this thing where you can transfer it into other languages or vice versa like I picked that before you've seen it it's mitosis but they've now added Svelto's into the mitosis package from builder nice sorry wrong what is happening with your head oh well i've told you before it's my lights kind of being funny but uh talking about expectations and people looking forward to the floating head this whole time i'm here to reveal to you this whole background has been fake yeah i was just gonna say Oh my god. I'm like the chroma key is. Yeah. He just like cut his background and he now has the floating head. This is bad radio, but yes, I did it live. Here's your floating head, folks. Oh my god. I took a screenshot. Okay, good. I'm like, we need that. Proof. Oh man. Enjoy. I was wondering how long it would take for you guys to point it out I mean We said something earlier I just thought you had a bad camera So honestly I thought Because you said something So there's his hands So honestly So you said Yeah, for now It's You said something with the words Like, oh yeah, we'll talk about that later or something and I was like, hmm, something's going on. Is that uncomfortable to wear? Like, are you wearing like a turtleneck thing around your head of a green screen? It's okay. Well, believe it or not, you've seen the original. It's much more comfortable than that. It's much more comfortable than having a piece of cardboard around my neck. So I have a I wonder if I can turn it off One second Like I said it isn great radio but we can there you go So I got a green screen back there Oh, I see. And then you have a green tool. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Gotcha. That looks a lot more comfortable. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Nice. Could we maybe find a photo of your setup? I know there's one floating around somewhere. It's my pin tweet. So that shouldn't be. Ah, yes. All right. Cool, cool. It's actually Rich's tweet that I then pinned. Cool. So I think let's, do you guys think we should move on to unpopular opinions or is there anything else that you guys want to chat about before that? All right. Yeah, well, glad you're in the community, Ron. It's been really great to see you, you know, go from, you know, not in the industry to definitely in the industry. Yeah, it's been great. Sean's actually been like one big part of that as well. Like I watched that first Svelte, what was the Svelte Summer that I wasn't in? Svelte Society Day? Yeah, I might have been that one. And, you know, getting to know Sean has been, you know, a major plus in this whole journey. And he's helped me a lot in my career as well. So shout out to Sean, definitely. I'll pay you later. All right. So unpopular opinions. Who has one? So I guess I already said mine. So I'm just typing English one. Yeah. So what was that again? That was the... I'm just typing it now. English is one. Dual lingua should not exist. Oh, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. You're right, you're right. Yeah, I don't have one either. So, yeah. Yes. So, yeah, I don't tend to fill my thoughts with unpopular opinions, but I think, you know what? This is probably never going to be said on Svelte Radio, so someone better say it eventually. Svelte is bad. That should be a fairly unpopular opinion on this show, right? Yeah. But you have to justify it. You have to explain it. You didn't mean it. Well, like I just, when I use it, I just, I just feel too happy using Svelte. You know I just brimming with joy and satisfaction The developer experience just makes using anything else much worse You know once you get spelt you can go back You end up meeting like tons of great people in the community and then you run out of time because there are so many great people. It's, yeah, it's rough. It's really just a life suck. Like it just, yeah, it sucks all of my time. Yep, I'm with you there, Brittany. I agree. Same. I guess this wasn't as unpopular as we thought. We're all in agreement. I guess this is a popular opinion section now. Yep. Sean takes the crown. So we're at the last section of the show. It's called picks. You get to pick something, something interesting, something uninteresting. Whatever you want, you get to pick it. So I guess I can start. While I've been having a fever and a cold this week, I have been playing a game called Hollow Knight, which is a game that I used to play a lot. And I just picked it up to play for a couple of days, and it's such a good game. It's a Metroidvania-style platforming kind of game, if that explains anything to anyone. it's actually one of the one of the best games I've ever played probably and it's great value it is you play as a bug and you go around killing other bugs which doesn't sound like a lot of fun maybe but it is a lot of fun it makes it fun I think it's 15 bucks or something there was recently a sale you could get it for 5 it's just a great value like very polished and you can play it on almost anything as well. So I'd recommend getting it. The art looks very nice. Yeah, it is a lot of fun. If you haven't tried it, try it out. Super cool. I think I'm next. So we were talking a little bit about travel and microphones before the podcast started. And I was saying that I actually switched to a lavalier microphone because I used to have a Yeti, which is kind of the default starter mic for most people. That's what I have. And then I was convinced by people. Don't buy a Yeti. There this sort of meme site going on don The recording quality is decent The problem is that it is a big black round thing that looks suspicious on x machines in airports. And so I got tired of getting stopped for my big black round thing and asking, what is that? It's kind of embarrassing. So I am switching to a lavalier microphone, which is just a clip-on microphone. So much lighter, so much. And the audio quality is just the same. So I put the recommendation in the show notes. And it's like 10 US dollars right now. Yeah. That's crazy. This is like, I noticed as well that YouTubers, they all start out with these like fancy microphones with the boom arms and everything. It's like a thousand bucks. You need to buy the audio interface and all that. And then eventually they switch to a clip on mic. So why don't you just go straight to clip on mics? Yeah. So my pick, and now I'm thinking, like, I don't know when this episode drops. I don't know if it's before or after, but we have a live stream with Skeleton, which is a new UI toolkit for Svelte with Tailwind CSS, next Thursday, the 15th. And if it's past, you can just go back and watch the live stream. But otherwise, join us live. I also want to mention that just based on like being laid off last week and going through a lot of things like get the mental help that you need. And Spring Health is something that Nellify offered for us. And I found we have free sessions through that that you can get. And I've really enjoyed being able to like look at the list of providers, pick somebody, and then it's just a Zoom call. So it was really nice for like getting some help and just having somebody to talk to. And if you need that help, just reach out to people. Yeah. Yeah. I've always been of the opinion that like most people should probably talk to someone like a professional or something. Yeah. Not like just in general, like not for maybe you don't have any issues, but most people have issues of some kind. So. Sorry, you're muted. Even if you don't have any issues, just having someone to like throw things at, like just get things off your chest, talk to and get like somebody neutral in the situation's opinion about things that are going on in your life and having somebody there to support you and just talk with is really nice. Yeah. All right. Ron, do you have?

 Do you have a pick? Yeah. I couldn't pick between two, so I'm going to tell them both. That's totally fine. Yeah. You had a game that came out recently called Warhammer Darktide. I played the precursor called Vermintide. If you ever played Left 4 Dead or any kind of co-op game, it's four people. You go in, you play with each other. And I've just found that as you get older, you kind of don't have the patience or the appetite for competitive stuff anymore. So just hopping online with, you know, three other people who, you know, all working to the same goal, you know, all like people aren't yelling at each other, you know, on their own team because they didn't do this or that. It's more of like a chill, mature kind of way to game, I feel. And I don't know much about Warhammer or like 40K and all that, but the graphics and the musics, you know, they've nailed it. And the gameplay of like the melee of like using you know close quarter swords and hammers and whatnot They nailed the feel of that being fun So that definitely one of my picks And the second one is have you guys ever seen squeeze peanut butter bottles So normally you have a jar where you unscrew the lid, you get your knife. Wait, this is going to save my life. What? Right. I have jelly. Yeah, right. I make peanut butter sandwiches every day for my kids. Yeah, yeah. Imagine having a hole in both of them just going. What? Where do I get this? I don't know if it's outside Australia. I'm sure it's not really that mind-blowing an invention. Not that groundbreaking. It comes out upside down in Australia. Yeah, exactly. So instead of getting a knife out and then spreading, you just go with the bottle, squeeze it. The thing is, this is actually a marketing slash, you know I don know commodities slash capitalists or whatever you call it ploy So they found that with shampoo bottles toothpaste whatever if you have something that points down and you squeeze to go out you tend to always use more than you actually need. So you end up buying more of that stuff. But this is one of the cases where like, okay, I see what you're doing. I know we're going. I know I'm falling into it, but I'm willing to pay the price of that. You know, this is so much more convenient. If they just made it crunchy somehow, if they're like, Oh, yeah. Got the right viscosity of like a liquid squeezing out but still be crunchy. Like that would make my day. I would like crunchy too. My kids don't like crunchy though, but I need that. And I've been using mayonnaise for years like that. But I found jelly this year for the first time. Yeah. And now I just need to find some peanut butter because that sounds like a life hack. Right? Yeah. Sick pick, right? Very sick pick. 100%. Yeah. All right. I think that's it. That all of the discussion points all of the sections all of the everything Ron thanks for coming on even though it in the middle of the night Go get some sleep. It's nice seeing you again after Svelte Summit, even though it's just online. Yeah, it feels like not that long ago, but it's, what have you been, two months? Is that right? Yeah, two months today, probably, right? September 12th yeah still highlight of the year three months three months yeah it just goes to show how being in person like how special that makes it feel yeah yeah I agree it's nice to have events back in person again absolutely for sure all right with that said we will see you all next week and yeah enjoy your svelte week bye Bye. Bye, everyone. Hey, it's Kavir. If you like the show, please drop a review on your favorite podcast player. It would help out a lot. Thanks.