 welcome to spelt radio hey another episode this one's pretty cursed we've been trying to to get this recorded for uh i don't know is it is it a month maybe something like that at least two or three maybe yeah i hear here we are anyway i'm kevin i'm your one of your hosts i'm joined by my other two co-hosts sean and anthony and today we have two guests we have jacob and willow i think from the Routify team that are on to talk about Routify. So welcome, guys. Thank you. Thanks. Hello. Hi. So before we get into the nitty gritty, what have you guys been up to lately? Have you been doing anything fun? Unrelated to Svelte or related to Svelte, if you want. I have been getting my double jabs for the COVID vaccine and then redoing the office and just general family stuff here in the summer. Yeah. so nice that's about it yeah i just got my second jab last week as well pretty pretty excited to go traveling what about you guys anthony sean well double jabs as well yes double jab crew i have basically been working on bionk which is not really different news to what i normally work on to be honest um we are just about to close a funding round very exciting uh which means we can hire lots of people soon so maybe maybe i'll turn the next uh podcast into a massive ad uh about hiring about trying to interview because it's hard work you know i'll tell you what it's it's difficult yeah it's um the markets i mean i haven't been in the market for a while and it's kind of changed quite a lot from from what i uh remember it to be so so yeah that's consumed a lot an awful lot of my time um for those who've done it funding is quite exhausting and hiring is the next step which is also very exhausting. So I'm busy. Sounds like you're having at least some fun. Yeah, it's definitely fun. It a learning experience and learning fun right I didn want to miss Willow or Ghost I don know which one it is but did you want to have an update I just am working on Svelte stuff and the products like Discord-related stuff too at the moment. Ooh, I'd love to hear about Discord stuff. I actually do have a work in progress thing that I really want to do. Okay, well, my update is I just moved to Seattle proper. I was in Bellevue previously. And so now I'm setting up my new apartment and I don't have my normal microphone. So if I sound crappy, apologies. That's not right. But yeah, our company, Beron Svelte, maybe like a month ago, we're still heavily underway building it out. People seem to like it. It's pretty crazy that we're converting, you know, react fans into svelte fans and um it's crazy to to see that we're you know we're comfortable betting on this thing nice yeah i've been i'm sorry no no go ahead i was gonna say i might just hire loads of react developers so i can convert them yeah is that how we grow the community i think so yeah yeah yeah i've been working at buddy base for for a while now and now i'm probably moving into more of a developer relationship kind of a role. So that's exciting for me. But yeah, let's get into Svelte stuff. So, Jake, Willow, what is Routify? Well, Routify is a router, more or less, file-based. It's inspired by the routing part of Svelte, where it kind of all started. I was using Svelte when I got into Svelte. But I did have some issues with build times and stuff, and I just needed a minimal solution for file routing. So I quickly whipped up a tiny little router. I think it was called Svelte File Router back then. And I was just using that on a couple of small projects, but that gained popularity. And then all of a sudden I had Rick So and others joining me with at least, no, Rick So did help write a lot of the code or some of the code and then others joined in after him and then it became Rarify and that kind of how the whole thing started Cool So I kind of jumped the gun here but I was going to ask so what are you guys background I'm a full stack software engineer, currently working as a subcontractor for Pycom. Yeah. How did you end up using Svelte rather than some other... Oh, I can't remember now. I think it started after we bought the house and I decided if we got the house I wanted to get, I was going to take a year off and just work on the house instead. And we got the house we wanted. So then I had a year to renovate the house. And then after a year of programming, where I was very determined not to do any programming or even set a TV up because I knew instantly that if I did that, then the house would stop. and that's also what happened later on. But anyway, after a year, I had to pick it up again, the programming, and I was looking at what was out there. I was used to using Vue. And I came across Svelte, and I figured I'd at least give it a try, and I instantly fell in love with Svelte. It had that feeling of, I don't know what you call it, a natural evolution of javascript yeah so that's how it started like a super set yeah and also for the i guess you know on a podcast you can't see jake's house but it's it's good it looks good it looks really good yeah it does look good look good willow what's what's your background how did you come into the routify fold so i started off mainly on the server and then about isn't it about a year ago now I decided to to start doing websites and because I find that I really enjoy making websites and I started out with just plain CSS HTML and jQuery and I saw a Fireship video on what's new with Svelte 3 and I said to myself this looks awesome because I was going to get into React, but I was like, this is weird. I don't, it didn't click as much as Svelte did. And so I started looking around, like, how do I, how do I make something this felt? And my first site was just with like the basic just roll up thing. And then I saw Sapper and I saw Routify And I think it was the 2019 or 2020 talk that Jake did that really got me into it And I joined the Routify Discord and I was like this is awesome What can I do to help And that's, that's just, that's how, that's how it's been. It's been helping since. Cool. You see, there's a benefit to giving talks with people to join you. Yeah. That's the only reason I know about Routify. that caught me by surprise because i hated that talk i gave well i i remember you you told me didn't you re-record that a bunch of times i did the first recording and it was near perfect and it was natural and i sounded like an actual human and there were a few flaws in it and i was like i can do that better i'll just give it a second go and then oh no all of a sudden it became memorized and the natural feeling was completely gone it became scripted and terrible so i'm surprised that's how ghost found ratify oh i i remember it being good yeah i do as i say yeah that was nice so that was all the way back in i think svelte society day right It was the first conference. Yeah, something like that. So you started Sapper, but then you made your own file router. So could we call that like Routify 0.1 or something, maybe? Yeah, I think there was a file router, and that would be Routify 0.1. And then when we change the name, that would be version 1. All right. So yeah, that makes sense. so one thing that kind of struck me about ratify uh or rootify probably as i pronounce i don't know which the correct pronunciation is i have no idea um but one of the things that struck me is obviously like sapper uses um its own kind of version of hydration which is a kind of all or nothing approach and i know that there was a decision in in r25 should we call it i don't know I'll try not to make up names on the fly. But basically, a decision to use... Is it JS DOM that it uses for SSR? What sort of made that decision? What was the reason behind that? Oh, for using JS DOM? Yeah, for the SSR stuff. I can't even remember what the original cost was for it. I think there was a bit more flexibility with JS DOM, especially with JS DOM.

 the ready helper we created where you didn't have to get into a lot of boilerplate and different syntax where it used to be that you had to create a different script module and then you had to run your thing things in there and have them in a preload function then you had to export the preload function and then import it into the main script and i see the benefit of it there's a purest appreciation of doing it like that because it's very efficient but from my point of view I felt for me, the Ready Helper was more efficient the way I was working, that I could just write my code like I would if it was a single page application and not even think about the SSR. And then the second I wanted to turn it into an SSR, I just wrote dollar ready and then it was SSR. So it was very easy to just transform it. I remember when I first found Ratify, this is one of those things that I liked about it. Like the simplicity compared to Zapper at the time. Just being able to just write stuff and then tack on a ready helper call and then you're pretty much done. So I couldn't... As you said, I do enjoy the helpers in Ratify, actually. You know, all the dollar prefix things that you import. I think that's quite a nice way of doing things and it's really good. You can thank Rixer for those. he came up with the system for tagging into the native stores of Svelte. Okay. Interesting. Nice. Yeah, that's how they work, isn't it? I suppose they're stores. Yeah, it's nice. I talked to him about it, and he said, you can do it like this, but he had to warn me. There's a risk that it would just one day break if the internal function just started changing. Yeah. So far, so good. Yeah, exactly. That's one of the risks you take, isn't it? I suppose when you're building something at that level that you kind of can't help but tie yourself to internals. I mean, Rick says the guy, he sort of lived on the edge of the internals all the time anyway because he wrote the original and current HMR implementation, in fact. And that uses some weird stuff. He's a wizard, yeah. So what are some other neat features of Ratify? Like what's the elevator pitch? I wish I'd thought about that. I have the help the helpers right they pretty good yeah the helpers are I don know what would be the elevator pitch for Routify For Routify 3 the biggest seller would be that it actually works inside SvelteKit Whether it works with all the features, I doubt that as far as hydration and all that goes. But if you wanted, you could just drop it into SvelteKit and then do a mix and match. You could do 50-50 or do all Routify. It's completely up to you. whether somebody will do that i don't know but i think that's probably the biggest seller considering uh how popular svelte kit is but on his own i'd say for ratify 3 that will be the virtual file system that you can access um it gives you a lot of flexibility that you can traverse the different files we call them nodes in ratify and you can kind of orchestrate different pages it helps especially for stuff like internationalization where you could redirect to different pages or show them depending on whatever logic you prefer or you can have a landing page where you show off 10 pages at once if you prefer there's a lot of flexibility there with the virtual file system that's all yeah was the internationalization a big driver behind ratify was it something you sort of baked into the core because i know that for instance the sapper we've sort of struggled with that you know getting the right decision it's something i always wanted to do and for everything i did with ratify it was um i wouldn't say it's an unless so i say i can't say that word But I wouldn't say it was a big priority, but it was more the whole concept of being flexible, where that was a part of it. That I didn't want to do anything where all of a sudden the people who needed those features would be cut off. So, yeah, I tried to keep it flexible so you could write your own. Yeah, I guess Wolfer was a big influence on the internationalization stuff. he always uh so wilfer wilfer is the is the the guy behind the design for svelte summit the websites yeah he very diverse yeah he got his team at mono to design the website and documentation and stuff so we owe him a lot of gratitude Oh for Routify as well Yeah Nice But I get where he's coming from because every time he has to do a project, they have to do it in three languages. So he needs something that's just completely streamlined that he doesn't have to think about every time. It should just work out of the box. Yeah. I guess there are a bunch of different places where it's like that, right? So you have Belgium where he is, right? And then Switzerland as well. It's probably like three languages. And probably a bunch of other countries where there are at least two. So that's pretty interesting. So if we switch around to the... Let's talk a bit about the community side of Routify. I know, Willow, you've been pretty active there on the Discord. what's it like running a Discord server that is it's kind of big right? There are a bunch of people on the Radify Discord Yeah we have well over a thousand people on it Oh nice Yeah I mean most of it's just people asking for like help and then Jake or I will usually get around to answering it There's also we have like a Git updates channel and And we have, like, I usually tag this role when we have new releases. And you can, like, click, like, this is a Discord bot, and you can, like, press this button, and it'll give you the role. So you can, like, opt in to notifications. Yeah, we have quite a lot in the Discord. Yeah, it's actually, like, interesting how big the Routify Discord is. since it's like one of those extra frameworks that are built on top of another framework, sort of. So it's nice to see that it's been growing to be as big as it is. I often see like sometimes smaller communities often don't get any traction at all, but that doesn't seem to be the case with Redify. That's nice. Yeah, that's another thing we can thank Wolfer for. I don't know how he did it, but I think it took him five minutes to get that going and then, yeah. Slow speed in no time. Yeah. So what it like building a file router What are some of the tough problems that you need to solve Did you say fire No, file-based. Oh, file-based, sorry. Yeah, I don't know how to insert that. It's a new earphone chain I'm not used to. No worries. Some of the problems are, I don't know. I think for Ratify 3 it's been a lot more difficult than it was for Ratify 1 and Ratify 2 because for Ratify 1 it was just fixing a very specific problem. I wanted the file routing that I have from Sapper and that's all I wanted and that was fairly easy to write and then Ratify 2 was just a continuation of that also fairly simple but Ratify 3 is a complete rewrite and there's a lot of tough choices that went into that and there are still some open ends, what would you call it, experimental features where I'm considering doing a versioning kind of like you have with Node and another software where you say you have uneven versions that's a little bit experimental and then the even versions you get it right and then every other year you do a minor rewrite. so for ratify 3 it's getting all these things right from scratch rather than just building on top of what you have all right so how so you said something about ratify being able to be used inside of svelte kit yeah how would that work um that's fairly simple actually you just create a file in your pages and you name it bracket dot dot index or whatever have you and then you just put ratify in there and then whatever comes from SvelteKit just gets redirected to ratify Do I need to turn off the SvelteKit router for this? No, that shouldn't be necessary because the SvelteKit router is still catching all traffic and then passing it on but if you're not going to use Svelkit at all, the routing, then you could. But it's not something I have played a lot with. I only created an example just to see if I could get it working and then once it starts working I was patting myself on the shoulder and then that was it. Then I haven't come back to it since. But it's something I want to look into further with it.

 And there's a bit of time for it. Yeah. So what kind of new features are there in Routify 3 compared to 2? The virtual file system that you use for navigation generation, especially for documentation sites and stuff like that, is a lot more fleshed out than we have external metadata. Whereas before you had to write your metadata as HTML comments because they had the benefit that data would automatically be stripped in production by almost any bundle you'd use. So we wouldn't need to compile anything to get metadata in like that. But those we support in external meta files now, so you can actually fetch data on build and you can cache that data. So if, let's say you had a site where you presented movies and you had thousands of movies there that you scraped off, MovieDB or whatever have you, you don't want all those movies to be scraped on every single npm run dev. You want that to just be available. You could have that cached and even stored when you save it to GitHub. And then on production, you could have the cache disabled. So the only time you ever scrape, not scrape, fetch from the API would be when you run your build. And other than that, you'd leave the API alone. That's one of the features. and then we have code splitting in the metadata and then we have preloads and guards kind of like you had in Zapper and SvelteKit I think is it called load now in SvelteKit? Alright, I imagine it's somewhat the same functionality that you run some functionality before you actually load the component whereas in Redify 2 the logic runs within the component so that's all for new features and yeah the biggest feature probably is multiple routers you can have routers within your router when would you want to do that are there reasons for doing that I think for very visual sites where you might want to do something like say you had galleries in a what do you call it a carousel or pages where you could go from what do you call it a page from page to page where each page is its own app that you can navigate in and then go back and forth and you still have the state preserved from the previous page. I think we're moving into app country now. This is not so much websites. It's an app feature. I know from Rick, so when he was doing, oh, this is embarrassing. What was the name of it? It's Svensch. when he was doing Svenge he was looking for a router or multiple routers and Routify didn't support that so he actually had to write his own file based router so I know Svenge is one example alright cool so let's see here and another thing that came to mind something like widgets a lot of websites now have widgets where you can navigate within the widget widget on the website things like that would be functional as well or if you're creating what do you call a website builder where you might want to navigate the site itself but you also have the navigation of the builder itself and yeah there are scenarios where you might want both saves using iframes doesn't it i suppose it saves having that yeah kind of yeah so i i i it just dawned on me that like so you could build your widget like you would build a standard app with your routes split up oh that that that makes a lot of sense and then you have the choice between storing the data nowhere where whenever you have a widget or a router within the page would just be lost when you navigate away from it or you can have it in the local storage or you can even have it in the browser in the address there yeah depends on what you prefer yeah all right so when uh when can we try this this new cool version of ratify because it's not out yet right well no it's not the plan was that um we'd release a preview or something after or simultaneously with the release of this podcast here. So I don't know what date you have for it. Oh, it's going to take a couple of weeks for sure. We have a couple of episodes going out before this. I think the preview will be out before then Yeah Famous last words Could be Now it should be ready Yeah Fingers crossed All right. So other than Routify, I know you also have some other tools that you've built. So StackMix, right? But that's probably kind of like a... Is that kind of the equivalent of Svelte Ad for SvelteKit, but for Routify? I don't know much about Svelte Ad yet. It's on the to-do list of things I want to try. Yeah, so that pretty much just adds functionality onto the basic SvelteKit install or whatever you want to call it. Say you want a tailwind, you do Svelte Ad Tailwind and you get tailwind. Is that an official capability or did someone make that? No, I think Jacob made that, right? Or J? What a stack makes? and no the the svelte ad is the thing you're talking about right tron yeah i've only seen that in the context of svelte ad tailwind i don't know what else it does i don't know who made it it just adds yeah like you said as for sure it just felt it has a bunch of stuff that i think anyone can make a thing that is added tailwind is probably the most used one because it's tailwind but i think there's a bunch of others um you know it's not an official thing it's like I don't know what's it equivalent to I guess it kind of just mixes like a mix and it adds mix to your whatever it needs to like whatever files whatever config whatever package needs to install it does that sort of thing um but it's completely community driven and I think the people who make the the things you can add to the adders I think they're called they're not all written by the same author and I don't know who the original author is but you're suggesting it might be Jay Yeah. Yeah, he's usually on the Svelte Discord a lot. Yeah. Were they called J No Control originally? I get so confused because it's reduced to one letter now. Yeah. On GitHub, I think it's Jacob Babich. Yes. Oh, Jacob Babich. Right. Yeah. Yes. Okay. All right. Anyway, detour. Sorry. Stack mix. So that's kind of the Routify equivalent, I guess. kind of add functionality. How would you describe it? It's a templater that works around a lot of logic. It takes into account what kind of bundle you're working with and where you have your main template, whether it index main or where your index is located there a lot of configuration going into it especially for when you pick your own bundler roll up or byte or whatever have you, that has to be taken into consideration. You have all these different configs getting merged, different things getting asked to package.json. It takes all those things into account and then compiles an app based on different configurations. It's unfortunately undocumented because it's, I don't know what you call it. It's very complex. The thing that works behind StackMix is called CanvasIt, and there's not a single line of documentation for it yet. It just started out as an experiment, and then I tried it with Rarify templates, and then Rarify 3 came into the picture. So maybe after Routify 3, I'll start working on the documentation for it. Yeah. It's the ever-long problem of documentation, right? It never gets done, really? Yeah. Okay. That's the base problem for Routify. It's always been half a year behind on the documentation compared to the features that it holds. Yeah. I don't think you're alone on that problem in the open source community. So there's another project that I find the name to be quite funny. It's called Spank, I think. Yeah. So from what I understand, you use it to spank out your server-side rendered pages from your SPA. And that's why it's called SPA. Yeah. So what's that? It's also like a… there's a little ecosystem of uh utilities around ratify that um they aren't really specific to ratify that you could use them with uh react or whatever have you they're very universal they handle ssr and pre-rendering static site generation and stuff like that um and that's where spank came into the picture that was a wordplay on spat and i can't even remember if there was anything on that nk or if that was just because it sounded a bit funny yeah it's it's pretty funny name and then there's tosser um oh right yeah which is just short for two ssr but it's it's funny because english right yeah yeah and then spasser that was uh

 SPA and SSR. It's got interesting naming conventions for sure. And then the last one, I think, was Configent, which builds configurations for whatever project you're working on. Say, for instance, for Rarify, there's a lot of configuration going into that when you set up a project. And sometimes if you use that within a certain framework, the framework might decide how that should be set up. So Configen, when you add that to something like Routify in the code base itself, it checks the dependencies of whatever app it's installed into and it says, oh, there's that framework here. That means we need this configuration. So it's very context aware. And then on top of that, it also reads your package JSON for a configuration by whatever you call your project. So when you're confident to Routify and then install Routify in the project, it looks for a Routify entry in package.json or a Routify config file in the root. Cool. So I think a common misconception about Routify is that it's a framework, right? And it probably stems from, I remember, was early last year i think that the the base template was almost like a full-fledged framework in a sense but routify in in and of itself is just a router right so you can use that without any of the other stuff if you wanted to but a lot of people often compare it straight to something more full stack yeah right that's i know that's been it's it's it's been kind of hard to describe the the difference sometimes the difference i say is a framework has all the features built into it ssr static page generation and so on whereas with rarify i tried to avoid tight coupling with any specific feature like that so instead we created some utilities that you can add and remove as you please i remember when meteor came out i don't know if that something you familiar with um it had everything baked into it and it was very popular at first and then later on an alternative came out called meteor i don know if you heard of it no like i kind of tried to do all the things that meteor did but without um a framework way it was just it was somewhere in between um instead of building or having a bunch of utilities it was just written into the template and with verify i wanted to do like they did with Meteor, not Meteor, but Meteor, and have all the functionality in the template written or driven by utilities instead of having to actually maintain the code yourself in the template. Yeah, sorry, just don't, I mean, we're talking about Meteor, not Meteor, as in like the nerd alternative. Because I'm not even... It's like fleshier, meatier, like meat. Oh, M-E-A. Okay. I-E-R. I think spelling would be better than like getting people to understand their pronunciation differences. Yeah. It's one of those things when you choose a name, you know, call it something like spank instead. Or tosser. Tosser. All right. So what's next for Routify and the Routify community? Do you have any plans? I know we talked a bit about you guys doing a video on the Svelte Society channel, right? Maybe that could be something fun to do. Oh, you mean a new video? Yeah. We will get around to that probably. We could maybe do a teaser type thing for Routify 3 or something. Because there's quite a bit of new things with Routify 3 that we'd love to do. And I think there's even Routify 2 features that never got announced. Yes, there are ghosts. that might be on me but yeah ghost has a little list of features for a blog post um anyway no rush there yeah we can even do a live stream or something like that you know make it easy yeah that could be yeah but i think you know we need to not be perfectionist about like announcing the perfect uh launch or something like that yeah it's it's always like what what's the saying is it perfect is the enemy of good no no good no i don't know yeah perfect enemy of good or uh yeah that that one saying that one saying that everyone knows exactly yeah um yeah or continuous um improvement over delayed perfection yeah yeah um in in terms of actually yeah um exposing things um bringing things to light that otherwise hidden i noticed ghost that you are launching a web deaf business is that right uh yeah i've studied work on it i just so i've been doing freelance web development like properly for like the past year as i mentioned and i've got too much work and i can't take it all on and i wanted to like hire some other people to help me out with that and so i've been working on oxova and definitely need to learn a bit from that um continuous improvement not in type thing because it's slowly getting there and trying to make it perfect yeah yeah yeah launch early and test on the public I reckon it was a good approach. We've been testing privately, but I definitely need to get something out there. Yeah, just get it out there. Yeah. All right. Do you guys have anything else you want to talk about with regards to Ratify or Svelte or anything in general? Yeah, how do you feel about Svelte in general? I love Svelte. I used to get a bit of anxiety about Svelte, I'll have to admit that, because when it was first announced, I didn't know if this was going to be a complete rival for Routify or if it was something that could coexist. And I have had a lot of people asking me, would this be the end of Routify? But after seeing SwellKit and the way it's made, I think we're doing the same thing differently and going for different demographics. Like there's some overlap, but there's also a good bit of differentiation. so I'm happy that time has passed or behind me now that I've actually seen what SvelteKit has become yeah I think a lot of that's a big thumbs up to the SvelteKit team as well I do love where it's going yeah I think when we launched SvelteKit actually there was a lot of kind of anxiety from people who had their own frameworks or libraries or whatever that covered some of the stuff that SvelteKit covers And it is entirely misplaced I think because I don know why it concerning but really the goal was we took the best bits from all the other frameworks and tried to build a kind of approach for all of it A lot of those maintainers actually have joined us on the core team because they decided that maybe contributing to the was the right approach for them Some carried on, ElderJS, for example, it covers a kind of, like you said, a different demographic. It's great to have competition, right? It's great to have people to share ideas with and stuff. It's all open source as well. Absolutely. Any last few questions before we move on to unpopular opinions no I can't think of any okay Anthony let's hear it oh it's always me first I can't remember I've got so many unpopular opinions I can't remember what mine is what was it where's my notion gone does Anthony not have an unpopular opinion I do I wrote it down You said SaaS pricing sucks. That's right. That's the one. That's SaaS pricing sucks. What does that mean? So, yeah. I mean, it's one of those things, right? So we're using a lot of SaaS because it makes sense before you try and build your own or customize it. You want to use something off the shelf. For those who don't know, SaaS is software as a service. And it's those subscription notion. You pay like $15 a month or something. And then if you run a business, you essentially, all these little bills just start piling up and then you end up with a giant bill that you don't know where it came from. Yeah, I mean, so I think my problem isn't the bills build up because obviously the SaaS I use, the pricing is quite clear. The problem for me is I guess that SaaS pricing as a whole seems to be very much like a three or four tier system. the lower tier you know the basic plan the developer plan the startup plan whatever are usually kind of free and you know often you get a fairly generous um amount of stuff there map box is a good example of that i mean we survived on map box on the on the basic plan basically for free they give you 50 000 map loads and the reason why i say so is that kind of like a like a Google Maps kind of thing? Yeah. Yeah. So sorry. So Mapbox is basically like Google Maps. I prefer it because it's a little bit cleaner, the code. So integrating it into an app, it bleeds a little less. Like Google Maps has a weird thing, for example, just to go on a bit of a tangent here.

 google maps you embed it in your application it starts to write to the browser history uh to the to the html5 history i don't know why it does it and it really messed up sapper's routine quite a lot at one point so i really went off it um but yeah so map box um 50 000 map loads is super generous for most people that they could survive for free no problem the problem for me is that their their next tier up makes i think it's every thousand map loads up to 100 000 map loads is five so that's that's a massive jump like that's a huge jump in pricing and you know i don't necessarily need map loads i need for example like tile loads you can't separate that out it doesn't give you that option and i found that a lot of sas doesn't you if you use sanity i think sanity is fantastic but once you want to go beyond the three free users which again is super generous it costs a fortune so i don't necessarily i need like one user maybe i don't want to have like a plan with 10 users i just want one more user i want to then have maybe more i don't know more content or i want to have more uh more api calls or something it just doesn't let you separate it out and i think that more sas could benefit from having a pay-as-you-go system which granted mapbox do actually have a pay-as-you-go system but it's only certain things you can do um a pay-as-you-go system or just maybe more tiers right give me the give me the four or five uh basic tiers and then let me drill down and pick you know a bit of this and a bit of that i just it would just mean that i could stay with the product um you know maybe there's a reason for it maybe it's because that the pricing works and that they can handle the volume that you're that you're taking in there and you know the it's a lot like that basic plan is a loss leader because it's you know getting users through the door and getting people using it but it just seems like maybe there's a better a way to do SaaS pricing. I guess that's why. It doesn't suck. It's just, it sucks, you know? Yep. SaaS pricing seems hard. Yeah, sure. Well, I'll offer this. There's a pretty common jump in pricing whenever it comes to enterprise features, including single sign-on. The thing is, single sign-on is such a common basic security feature that a lot of people think actually it should be part of the basic offering. So there's a site that you can go to called SSO that actually is like an SSO wall of shame It shows you how much markup they charge you just for adding SSO So for example Airtable charges you 500 markup just to add a single sign on. And so, yeah, it's a pretty interesting metric by which you can criticize SaaS pricing, but then also people seem to pay it. So yeah, I mean, that's true. It's not wrong at all. I mean, that's uh you know there's definitely there's definitely a reason behind it it's just you know i had to move loggers because sematex i'm going to call them out on it sematex right is a decent logging platform it's easy to get upset with it does jason it does good searching but the moment i go and i'm using up the 500 megs of logs or whatever a day the moment i want to go over it's 180 or something a month like from zero that's a big jump that's a big jump yeah for another half gig can't i just get two basic plans you know two free plans yeah i guess it's uh i guess it works it must work it must work but it sucks okay um i don't know if uh jacob or uh ghost have any unpopular opinions to share i'll go first while you think of something um so my unpopular opinion is that we will want svelte to stop growing at some point and we will want svelte to stop growing at some point um i don't know when but uh right now so and this this idea came about because i was listening to chris to me on the bike shed podcast chris is a uh converted svelte user and pretty uh pretty happy with it um and he pointed out that the reason, so Svelte recently became the most loved framework on Stack Overflow, right? Beating out React, Django, Rails, all these other frameworks that are popular. But it's most loved because it's a very small group of people who use it. And the more people who use it, the less love it's going to get, right? And that's just how things are. People who are early adopters are more vocal about their love for things. And so right now Svelte is is roundabout 3% of people surveyed, 3% of developers use it. And then Vue.js, 20% of people use it. React.js, 40% of people use it. So React is roughly twice as big as Vue Vue is roughly I don know eight times as big as Svelte And so the question is at some point do we stop I think there a certain small is beautiful element of Svelte. What do you guys think? Yeah. I think the community aspect of Svelte seems like it's a very small and nice community. And I think that's definitely a pro in comparison to many of the other frameworks like for example if if if you wanted to to go to like react meetups where where would you go like you can go to all sorts of places to find one but like with svelte there's this there's just one discord where you you go there and then you from there you find other places to go and you branch out if that makes sense yeah you know i'm trying to grow that with the Svelte Society thing, right? Like we have maybe 15, I don't know how many are active Svelte Societies around the world. And as the world reopens, hopefully they'll start having their own meetups and their own languages and all that. So we'll see. It's early days, but I'm already thinking ahead to like, when does this, when does the essence of what Svelte is, like what we enjoy about Svelte today, when does that go away? Because Svelte is too big now. it's a bit of a paradox isn't it yeah it has to stop growing to grow i think that i think that a few maintainers probably think it's already too big to be honest they quite enjoyed it when it was small and you know they got they got very few feature requests through but um but no i mean i i totally agree i can understand that you know when something becomes too big and too popular then you know it reaches that critical mass but as for keeping it small it really hasn't grown as in like the people who maintain and contribute the most the amount of external contributions has grown but the core team is still very small and decisions generally are ratified by the original kind of miniature core team which is definitely a good thing it keeps the quality high I know that a lot of the downfalls we see in other libraries frameworks are that the API just stops making sense and I think we've done well so far to ensure that it continues to make sense. So yeah as long as you still got that kind of those gates I guess that you know something has to go through the gates of quality then there no reason we can keep going at least for the meantime and let it grow All right I don have an unpopular opinion this week Yes, you do. You're just being quiet about it. I do have a lot of unpopular opinions. Same here. Not any that I want to talk about. I'm just joking. All right. Jake, Willow, do you guys have any unpopular opinions that you want to? I only have unpopular opinions. I tend to keep them for myself. All right. I don't know. Maybe one unpopular opinion is if you file a book report, and that's not necessarily spelled. That could be anywhere, and you get told, yeah, but why would you do something that looks like an edge case? that's not what it's built for even if how you got there is very fundamental it could be something like having five variables and adding them together and then subtracting them it's not something you do just for the fun of it but it should still work and sometimes you get told well that's not two lines of code so it shouldn't work and I'm like well whether it's two, three, four or five It should work all the same. It should work as expected. That's more of a pet peeve. Sounds a bit like you're holding it wrong that Apple said on the iPhone, right? Yeah, something like that, yeah. All right. Willow, do you have one or should we move on to Pix? I don't. No. All right. Pix it is. I'll go first. So I'm around my hood, or where I live, I guess I should say. I'm known as a bit of a jeans person, so I always wear jeans. But this summer I've decided to try out linen clothing. and in the heat wave that's been going on this this summer it's been 10 out of 10 fantastic so i can recommend i've i've been buying from a brand called uh muji i think they're international should should be all or all over i can recommend their uh their linen pants or linen shirts if anyone's looking for it

 Well, I'm glad someone got a summer here because we didn't. Yeah. Has it been raining or? It's rained torrentially. We've had some days of sun. There's been a spot here and there, but mostly rain. Yeah. All right. That's like the Irish saying, the summer because then the rain gets warmer. That's about right. I think, yeah. All right. Who wants to go next? I'll do a quick pick. So my pick is Superbase, mainly because I was super impressed by their July updates. And it's pretty crazy. They released a phone authentication storage dashboard. They launched a hackathon, a bunch of Postgres support, Flutter, all in one month. And I just looked at this and I was like, what did I do in July? They seem to be machines for sure. so they're definitely pushing themselves very hard i mean i so you know the the the my relationship to this problem is that i would use to work at amplify and where it's essentially trying to it's basically aws's version of firebase right and firebase itself is a well-funded team that is that's working on this problem this team of 19 people is out shipping all of them and i i mean i think there's something special there about being a startup versus a big you know behemoth where you don't particularly feel any urgency. But also I think it's pretty cool to watch just something develop when a startup has momentum. So, yeah. I think it's, I saw some thread on Hacker News about like a Spotify client that was native. That was, it was like in the top five, top one maybe yesterday. And I saw some comment in there about like, wow, this one person or two people are making an actual native application for Spotify, while Spotify is just using Electron, and it's super clunky and has all of the problems that Electron apps has. It's interesting how size can be such an impairment at times. And I'm sure there are probably like a hundred different things that the smaller team doesn't have to think about, right? That the big one has to keep in mind Exactly Yeah So they have the advantage of not worrying about legacy yeah all right all right uh so my pick is well the background is um i trying to do some some hiring get some job specs out right now and the process is obviously if you don't do it with a tool it can get really messy and hard to keep track of who's where and what people are like and that kind of thing um i've used a few similar tools before and i have to say they're kind of much of a muchness they they all kind of do the same fundamental thing um but i'm really enjoying goahy.io because uh one their sas pricing doesn't really suck that much um but also because it's it's you know there's nothing like blow away game changer feature but it does everything i want it to it's a good price and it's very reasonable works in a predictable way and the ui is decent essentially you know you write a job spec uh you say publish it publishes it to all the usual job sites um all the ones even ones we'd have to pay per job spec it's all included in the sas price it appears which is quite nice and then it manages applicants when people apply it collects the relevant information uh it asks to upload their cv so yeah you know you always get a cv through each time you have to kind of worry about it offers them place per covering letter it then gives you also a job site which is quite nice um so you have your own custom domain um jobs.whatever company.com um and people can apply directly to the site i've noticed a few applications coming through the go high site itself in fact which is quite cool um so there's one one extra kind of route to market i suppose um yes i'm generally i'm generally impressed with it it seems to be everything i want to do give people star ratings add tags to people that kind of stuff and you can do the whole pipeline there move them through like a like a kanban style board of hired rejected you know this interview that interview you can even send them questions through the through the tool itself so so yeah gohi.io is is taking taking a lot of boxes for me right now nice that's so funny we uh so one of the people at buddy base made a made actually like a like a job application application template the other week should have should have used that it doesn't really doesn't really like connect to all of these other I don't know no whatever job sites connect to though so yeah I mean the other people in my company were doing it manually by each site and it just just collating the cvs that come in various different sites links emails Oscar my my ceo can actually send me links to our angel profile because though it says I in the company I can access it It's all very awkward. So having it in one place is really good. Really impressed with it. That's cool. All right. Do you guys have any picks, Jake, Willow? Not specifically, but I recently started using ClickUp at work. I'm just ClickUp. clickup.com I'm new to it but my initial impression is that it's got a lot of potential and this could be my new favourite place of just managing everything for any project but yeah it'll give me a week or two and I might know a bit more have you tried Notion? have you compared it with Notion? Notion but whereas I think Notion is more like one feature I love Notion by the way I think ClickUp involves a lot more, covers a lot more ground. For writing a draft, I prefer Notion. Anytime I need to write something quickly and share it with people, I prefer Notion. But for managing sprints and tasks and all those different things, ClickUp ties a million different services together so you don't have people scattered around GitHub and Jira and Notion. And all these other services. It's something I would consider using. For now, I've only tried it in work, but first impression is good. Yeah, I first heard about it on the Code Story podcast. So if you are interested in the founding story from the founder himself, you want to check it out. That would be interesting, actually. Yeah. And it threw me off balance completely because my entire world is Notion. And I was like, what is this weird ClickUp name? It sounds like an SEO site or something. Yeah. And it's actually a productivity tool. So it's come from nowhere and it's apparently very popular. Should we try that for Svallet Radio templates? Nah, I like Notion. That's another paradox with productivity tools. The amount of productivity I've lost, trying out different productivity tools. Yeah, the struggle is real. Always chasing the next one. This time I didn't think it'd all. actually i was told by a very a very um very large vc this morning that uh it really impresses them when people submit their pitch decks in notion which is kind of a curveball to me What really You know, rather than PowerPoint or PDF. It's the new WordPress. Yeah. Hiring pages actually even look better in notion. Like there's, there's no point making a custom hiring page or using lever, just use notion. All right. Last pick. What's what's on your mind? I have a lot of picks, but I think you have to pick one. Yeah. No, no, no, no. Give them all. No, we'd be here for a while. I was just looking through my styles on GitHub and like everything here is pretty cool. So, um, no, so I've been using for quite a while now. I've been using this website called, um, grid.layoutit.com. Um, it's made by, uh, Lenio Labs, which is, I don't, I don't really know. I think it's owned by some of the VEAT guys, I think Patak and someone else. But don't quote me on that. I'm not 100% sure. It's a way to visually create CSS Grid. And the only time I ever really use CSS Grid is when creating complex navigation that needs to shift around frequently. and being able to do it visually is just awesome because grid can sometimes be a bit much. So that's my pick. That's a nice pick. I think I've seen this around, but I've never used it. I'll admit I'm one of those people who always sit with a cheat sheet next to me whenever I'm working with grids. Yeah. I used to do that a lot before. and I sometimes have to go back and double check as well. There are so many options. Exactly. It's like CSS within CSS. Yeah. It's the, have you been, I'm sure you guys have seen like the CSS tricks article with the, like the complete guide to grid or whatever it's called. That's the one I always end up at. I use CSS grid critters from, I forget, Dave Geddes and yeah, I just memorized it after playing that game. So plug for it. I think it's expensive, but it's a good game if you want to learn CSS and memorize the thing. We'll add it as well. Yeah. All right.

 that's us this time, this episode. Where can guys or gals or anyone really find out more about you in Routify? Anyone want to offer up some links? You can go to routify.dev and my GitHub is ghostdev with two Vs. Obviously one of the best usernames ever. and Jake's is Jacob Rosenberg and don't even ask me how to spell that no Jake how do you spell your name I'm sure you can find me on github if you find the ratify project yeah you can I think there's if you go to ratify.dev you can just click on his face if this airs in two weeks we'll have a little sticker on the front page by then with a link to a preview to Rarity 5.3. I think we can guarantee that. Definitely. Just give us a little heads up before you release it. I just went on Ghost's homepage and it just discovered that you have a Discord, a personal Discord. That's interesting. I have a Discord for developers who just talk and get help with their code. Joining. Nice. All right. I guess that's it any last few words from anyone? no from me alright this is it for now thanks for coming on and yeah bye everyone thanks for having us bye everyone