 Hello everyone, welcome to another episode of Svelte Radio. I'm joined this time by my beautiful co-hosts, Anthony, Brittany. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hey. Anthony's audio is a bit weird because he's at a castle in Portland. Specifically not the U.S. Portland. Yeah, luckily right now. Specifically Pennsylvania Castle, which is also not the Pennsylvania next to New York. Oh, wow. It's absolutely beautiful, though, for listeners. Sorry. Yeah, it is. Yeah. And then I was going to say we also have a very beautiful guest uh jeppe is back i think you've been on the podcast once before right or at least on the youtube channel i have not i've been on the video thingy yes that makes sense that i have not been all right welcome jeppe i'm nice to see you i haven't been referred to as the beautiful before so i'll take that i'll keep every guest is beautiful Oh, that's beautiful. That made it look cool. Beautiful storybook. Yeah, so you work at Chromatic, right? I always mess that up. I always say, oh, you work at Storybook. But no. I work on Storybook at Chromatic. Yeah, yeah. Maybe you can tell us a bit about yourself. Yes, so I'm a software engineer at Chromatic, and I am from Denmark, but all my colleagues are not. So I work from home and that's great. I love that. Everyone should do that. I, so, and so I work on the Storybook team and Storybook is open source. Storybook is free, but we're quite a big team. We're actually eight maybe now. And, and everyone is, is in the core team is a, works at Chromatic. So Chromatic funds the development of Storybook. And that's awesome. I've been doing that for three years now. And three years ago the Svelte integration was not as great but maybe it is now So maybe there something going on there Before that let maybe explain to the listeners what is Storybook Give us the elevator pitch. Yeah, so Storybook is sort of like a workshop for a component development, where usually when you're building components in Svelte, you will put them in your application and they will work fine. But then as you put them in some other page, it will start to break. because that use case wasn't part of the component. And so Storybook is a way for you to look at your components in isolation so that you can really just focus on the component and make it great with the props and what state it needs to be. And then you can specify different stories, which are like use cases for a set component. And then once you're ready, saying now the component is great, you put the component into your application, and then it's there. right? Storybook is sort of like a companion app similar to vTest being something that runs alongside your application. It's not part of the application and such. And then you can use it for testing and for documentation as well and for development. And yeah, that's Storybook and not tell. Am I right in saying here that Storybook runs alongside your main application but it shares the same source code so that what you're testing is the real thing? Exactly. So similar to when you have some unit function file, you will write a .test file next to it and import your actual code. You'll also write a .stories file next to your components and then import your actual components. So it's using the same source. It's even using the same Vite config if you want to. And so the setup is the same, more or less. All right, cool. So this episode is titled Storybook is Actually Good Now because we – I remember back in the days, like before I even started using Svelte, back when I was using the Cursed Framework, React. It wasn't very good back then either. There's probably still a video of me on this Felt Society YouTube channel just struggling to get storybooks set up. And I think that might have spurred some of this That was a very important video That for and i i can tell you all about the backstory here um so so storybook was originally for react like storybook old storybook like eight years old now or something uh for react and then it expanded into other frameworks as well and it also expanded into svelte via community contributions um and that was before my time so I'm just relaying information I've heard, right? But essentially, these contributions were pretty great. It created an okay integration between Storybook and Svelte. But the problem with this was that these were often drive-by contributions because you would have this very passionate engineer that got hired into a Svelte project and he wanted to use Storybook. And so he spent a bunch of time contributing stuff. And then six months later, he got moved into another project that didn't use Svelte and then he left it and then the next engineer came in and then like that kept happening over and over again and so they built something great but then it wasn't really maintained by the same person and that sort of made it rot a bit up to the point where Brittany posts a video of her setting up storybook with Svelte and the interesting thing about this video was that Brittany was very enthusiastic about it. Brittany really wanted to make this work. Enthusiastic is such a diplomatic way to put it. Right. No, but she wanted it to work. It wasn't just like I'm going to do a video and then rant about all this not working. That just happened because the experience was so bad. And that was an eye opener for sure. and the biggest reason was from my remembering this was maybe three years ago the biggest reason was that Storybook was only Webpack back then and Svelte had already moved over to VEAT so when you try to set up the same thing in Webpack and VEAT you're going to run into something you don't like it was Webpack config man it was awful and I believe the video ends with Brittany just saying I can't do this it doesn't work Um, Brittany is a reverse influencer. And so at that same time, I was actually, uh, I was interviewing for storybook and I one of the things that I said was like I really like Svelte So if there anything we want to do about svelte i would love to help out and then combining that with britney video was like oh we need to to do work here and so um and so that started our first integration to svelte kit we did an official svelte kit package which was basically if you have svelte kit here is a zero config setup for you because there's some stuff that you need to modify and we'll modify that behind your scenes in your read config um and that really kick-started the whole let's improve the svelte integration um and with me being on the core team with me being sort of enthusiastic about svelte i love svelte that was like sort of one hand that just could keep maintaining it instead of these drive-by maintainers um and so i've just been i've been building on top of what we had previously i haven't started anything from scratch i don't want to take the work away from them yeah and so it also kick-started a collaboration with this felt core team um i think ben mccann who's like a fantastic guy he was the first one to reach out and say hey can we make this integration better um and ben is kind of throughout the years i was gonna say ben ben feels like everything Yeah, he's just glue between everything. Yeah. Yeah. He's like the integrations guy. He just kind of reaches out to every third party and then says, hey, let's integrate in both directions, which is really cool. Yeah, I agree. And he keeps doing that, like with the new package overview ecosystem thing, right? So that's amazing. And essentially that collaboration between the Storybook core team and the Svelte core team just kept improving. We kept having more and more people chiming in. Dominic also helped out a lot. Lately Simon has also helped out. Paolo, of course, has contributed stuff. And it's just really powerful. Because in Storybook, we integrate with all the major frameworks now. We have like Angular Review and React and web components and such. And there's no other framework that we are more close to collaborating with as Svelte, like by far. And we can really see the impact in every day, basically. So in terms of functionality that has gone through,

 I have some vague memory of, was it slots that was a bit problematic to do stories with? Or am I misremembering? Yeah, so. That's working now. Well, I guess slots aren't a thing kind of ish anymore. Well, snippets, it's just as awful, honestly, if we hadn't done anything, right? And so there's a specific format in Storybook that you write your stories in. And it's based on JavaScript ESM. And so you have these objects. And then you reference your components, but then Svelte components, and you want to pass in slots to them, you can't really define a Svelte component in JavaScript. And so that's like the API for that. It's really bad. And therefore there exists an alternative syntax called Svelte CSF, which also existed before my time. I just improved it. Where you write all your stories in svelte syntax. So that way you can get in slots or snippets and you can do your svelte states and you're derived like all the runes work. And that is what we hear at least from users that like they really like that way better because they're used to their svelte syntax. So they just want to write their stories in their svelte syntax. like imagine if you could do the same thing for your vtest unit tests writing that in svelte right well i've been saying that for a while that i do all of my testing in storybook now because it uses vtest and you just write a play um prop on your svelte csf and you write your test just straighten that and i'm happy to hear that i mean that's that's what we want people to see uh because like So for people that don't know, stories is like this snapshot of your component with specific props in a specific environment. Maybe you have a component that is encapsulating your other component or maybe you have svelte context. And then as Brittany said, you can also write a play function is what we call it where essentially you interact with components well. So you might do click the button and assert that the form has opened or assert that you got a form error or whatever. and then when you see this in the storybook UI you will see the interactions play out So you can actually see the mouse clicking and whatever And we feel that that pretty powerful because UI is visual Why does it have to live in the CLI? You can see each step. You can stop each step. You can replay the test. It's such a nice visual to go along with it. I love it. I think that's a really powerful thing. the ability to step through something, which kind of relates to how debuggers work, I suppose. But a lot of early testing frameworks for UIs, and I've had many years of experience with them as a contributor and a person who uses them day to day, the thing that's really missing from everything was a way to properly debug it, properly step through, go and watch visually what's happening as the steps of the test execute. And I think when I saw, oh, what was it called? I haven't used it so long, I've forgotten. The browser testing framework, Cypress, right? When I see that, and I didn't like the syntax, it wasn't like I was used to, but the fact you could stop a test and just see what's going on right there, it makes debugging go from probably hours of time wasted debugging to instant debugging. I think that's a super valuable feature. And also Playwright also have Traces videos where you can see the recording, which is also very powerful. right um our our take on that is is is the interactability so so what storybook allows you to do like you build a static version of your storybook and then you can publish that with chromatic or with netlify or whatever you want to do it and then uh if there's a problem in your interaction test you can send the link the publish link you can send that to your designer or someone say hey why is this not working as you intended it to work and then they can actually interact with it. They can stop at the step that it's broken in and then they can write stuff. It's not just a static image or a static video. I think that's super powerful. I need to really set up a storybook for the new Svelte Society website. Maybe I can invite you to with testing. Oh no, with the new SV integration too. It's literally a one-step thing. You just select that you want to add storybook, and it's so easy to just get in there. That was also like the Svelte people I should redo the video but it would be like five minutes of me just setting up Svelte kits It super cute And then you be an influencer then and we don want that I should do a TikTok video of it. We also recently modified or contributed to the Svelte docs. And so now Storybook is described how you test with Storybook in the Svelte docs. So that should make it easier to get started. Nice. Yeah, I might need more handholding. So I might just invite you to do a video with me. That's a good idea. I had a great chat with Scott Talinsky at the Svelte Summit where he basically told me that they were doing component-driven rewrite of their website syntax. And they were doing it like storybook first, which was amazing to hear because he has been not a fan of it previously. and so now hearing that they're doing it with a component first and then putting it into the application afterwards that was pretty amazing to hear I say I'm being able to get to rewrite the websites that's how I build my design systems now, I'm on my second design system where I've started building components put them in storybook, test everything and then they get dished out to the apps it's like the dream, it's like how devs should have worked, right? Greenfield is best field Yeah. Yeah. Brownfield, not so much. Everything feels like Brownfield. Yeah. I've been working on way too many, like, not Greenfield apps lately. It's a bit painful. It's healthy, though. I mean, getting a Brownfield application to work is, like, way harder than them. Yeah, we learn from mistakes and all that. My latest company is taking a Greenfield design system and putting it back into other things now. But that's like even harder, I feel like. Rainbow field. We have a new application it's being used in, but then they're like, oh, this old application can use it too, right? So now we're just migrating everything. Right. Well, you got to start somewhere. Yeah. Storybook got us there faster. I mean, probably, right? Oh, for sure. Yeah. Yeah, it would be bad if it was the other way around. It took longer. No I think it such an easy integration and building out your components making sure they work I mean you have less bugs for your users once it does get used So we able to put those into older applications easier and know that it trusted Yeah. I had a question about, so I don't know if you've thought about this much, but these new remote functions that have been released in SvelteKit, Now that we have a way of basically combining data loading and interactions via functions, are you thinking about how to maybe integrate that into Storybook? Let's say you have a widget of comments or something, and then you want to make sure that the remote function... does its thing in maybe different variations of failure states, success states, et cetera? Is that something you've... For sure. So there's one important limitation about Storybook to know is that everything you do happens on the client. Yeah. And that's why we can also do static builds because there's no server really. And that's, of course, a big issue for remote functions because they're meant to run on the server. And there's really just two ways to think about it is, what is it that, if you consider a story like a test, what is it exactly that you want to be part of that? Because sometimes you may say that you just want to look at the component and the UI, and that the remote function is not part of that. And so you mock it out. Storybook has a mocking API similar to vTest. So you will just say, mock this remote file and replace it with something that you fully control. When this function is called with these parameters, return that. And I think that's easy and that makes your stories deterministic. You don't want your stories at all to depend on externalities at all. But then you say, well, but then I'm not testing the fact that the interaction with the remote function works. And so you can also say, keep the remote function, but then mark out all the server-dependent parts. So maybe you have a database that you're calling, and so you want to mark out the database modules instead. And so it really is up to you where you want to define the layer, but you are probably going to need to mark something because...

 the remote functions work on the server, which we don't have. And that's fine that you would have to mark it because you would have to mark any kind of call to remote service anyway, right? Exactly. Yeah, you don't want the remote service to have an impact. I must say that I haven't tried remote functions in Storable yet. So there's the API of remote functions with like query and command and that jazz. I'm not actually sure how that works. in storybook form. Maybe it works, maybe it doesn't. I need to have a chat with someone from Svelte team about what it does behind the scenes and can I make that work on the client as well. Right. But so for now, this is the safest bet, which is we mark out the full remote function. Yeah. And then I'm sure we'll figure it out. Yeah. So that would mean, so at the moment you would just import the function, right, in your component and then you would use it. so you would have to rewrite you would either have to import the function from somewhere else or pass it in as a prop so you kind of run into some weird you can even know because you can mock the module you can import the remote function that's a strong suit about Svelte because if you compare that to React server components which are I have all my server stuff at my component and Storybook just chokes on that for now. We have ideas, but you can't really just say, I want to mock certain parts of my file. It's either... I see. And that's really the benefit of the... I know that this is Rich Harris's big thing is that you need to have separate files for your server and your client always. Yeah, definitely. That makes Storybook way easier because then you can say, all these server files over here, I'll just mock those out because they don't... I mean, I see. i think even even you know it makes sense in terms of not getting confused between dependencies and not accidentally importing certain things where they shouldn't be imported and get exposed in a bundle or something but even beyond that if you look at how mocking has worked for a million years no no matter what framework or or testing library you use they always struggle with partial mocks partial mocks themselves feel like an anti-patter anyway but they're kind of like a last case resort but they always, always struggle because you trying to like take something real and just kind of half fake it It just doesn the whole concept is barmy So yeah Yeah so you just put in mock and then you pass in the path to the remote function file and then that whole file is mocked out. You don't have to do dependency injection or anything. Yeah. All right. Yeah. It's a good answer. So what is coming up in Storybook? Like what's a new cool thing that we can talk about? Storybook 10 is in beta and Storybook 10 is not. We did some Svelte fixes. We did. So in SvelteKit, you have this, you've had this module called dollar app slash state for a while since Svelte 5. And we didn't support mocking that. But now we do in Storybook 10 at least. So essentially, if you, maybe you're writing stories for your page, which is totally fine. You don't have to do it for design systems. and this page, it imports what is the current URL what is the current queue parameters from app state and then in the stories you just define, well this is a story where the URL is X and this is a story where the parameter is Y and so you set up these scenarios for each page state essentially and we just added support for that now even though it's been a while That sounds really nice, especially if you're if you want to test a full page and you're relying a lot on RAMs and stuff like that. Yeah, because doing this manually is often really tedious. You have to keep visiting this page over here with this exact user logged in and that's where a storebook really shines in that you just predefine that in your story and say this is when the user is logged in. we also added support for async components oh nice which is great it should just work out of the box and you can even in your play functions you can even do like do some assertions like when the async stuff is still loading and then you can await it being done loading and then you can do some more assertions so you can really do like in between the async stuff you're actually giving me ideas right now because I have not been testing my pages. We just have the components in Storybook, but then the pages go in the app and we send them to QA and then they come back like 15 times because it like manual process She goes and she checks everything It fails It comes back to me And so I could just run these tests and make sure everything works Yeah. And you'll speed up development as well, right? Because you'll just skip the back and forth because you'll see the errors yourself. Yeah. And you can run. I don't know. Maybe you do that, Brittany. But if you run the tests, like the Storybook story tests in the CLI and CI, then it'll fail when you... I do it locally. I don't have it set up in our CI right now, but yes. One thing that you need to do, like when you do think about SvelteKit pages in Storybook, is that there's no way of automatically adding the layouts, similar to like what SvelteKit does. so when you write a story for a page you also need to write that it is within this layout and this layout that's also sort of powerful because then you can look at the page in different layouts but it's also sort of painful because Svelkit does that for you automatically so it's you win some, you lose some I guess that also means you could yeah, you could theoretically create a scenario that can't exist in real world maybe For sure. Oh, yeah. If you just put in the page and you ignore the layout, but the layout would always be there, then you have created a scenario that doesn't really exist in the application. So you just create a layout component and wrap it and everything kind of like React, like you would have to. I mean, you just import the layout component and then put it around. Yeah, that's what I mean. And if you're very curious about that, that's the video I did with Kevin two years ago or something. so I don't think much has changed since then maybe even the syntax nice alright so Storybook has gotten faster better, smaller faster and smaller Storybook 9 was a lot smaller because we just spent like month and month of making it smaller with fewer dependencies better dependencies and then for Storybook 10 we're going ESM only which is huge for us as maintainers. Yes. But it's also huge for users because users ran into a lot of issues like, oh, this is the CGS file that you really did not want. And we're just eliminating a huge chunk of bugs. It is a breaking change for a lot of people but I think for the Svelte community it not so much a breaking change because everything is EaseM only anyway in Svelte So I wouldn expect a lot of issues there I have kind of a random question too. Good. So we have a very large icon library, like the entire material library. It's like over 2000 icons. And at first I was importing it and it was not tree shaking it very well. We have to import the direct file rather than the entire library. And Storybook, it will still even freeze up sometimes when there's a lot of icons on the page. Is there something I'm doing wrong there? Or does that need to be done in a different way? It's still in Stories only, right? You're not putting the icons in the manager UI, are you? The icons are in the components, not in Storybook, no. I mean, I don't know. I think so Storybook in that regard just does the same sort of bundling as your application would do. And so I would expect that the output would be the same as you should have. We do have some performance regressions that I'm fixing, which is essentially Storybook does some automatic code doc gen where we parse all your cell files and then we see what are the props so you can have a nice props table and such and right now we do that for all your cell components in your whole module graph and so that means if you have 5,000 icons, we'll parse all those icons and that's a waste of time so maybe that's what's happening and then there's a way to disable that but otherwise I would still even with the the EA E18 E community also says is like, avoid the barrel files, uh, just import the components or the icons explicitly. Okay. Yeah. That's what we're doing. I just still have that sometimes, but yeah, I don't know. It could be the performance for guys. And I'm talking about. I think sometimes we'll auto import stuff and it will come over a podcast. Also imports are sometimes annoying. That's true. Yeah. Any other questions for Jepa? Or do you have any other topics? Well, you asked what we're working on. And so I can also say that we readed our documentation for Svelte before it was just a readme.

 in a repository, but now I have to put it in the official storybook docs. That's great. We also rewrote the, we have like an introduction tutorial for each framework, and we rewrote that from scratch. So it's Svelte 5, and so it's SvelteKit and such, and with the new Svelte CSF syntax. That's really important to us because that specific tutorial, I see it ranks pretty high in Google, so we have a lot of visitors there. Yeah. Oh, nice. yeah other than that I mean it's we rely heavily on snippets in the new Svelte 5 world and that is that's great I mean snippets are great for Storybook I don't know how much they're used outside of that use case but in Storybook it's an awesome API to leverage so hopefully we can do that more in the future yeah snippets are such an improvement over slots even as just like an application developer. All right. So what... After Storybook 10, what can we expect? Is it going to get even better, faster, and smaller? Or is this secret? All of them, all the time. so we're we are we have a lot of especially chromatic customers but also storebook users that are asking for better AI support and you can you can have your opinions about AI and agents I certainly have mine but the matter of fact is that we want to to give something to these users that are asking for it and so we're building a few storebook MCP servers especially for design system. So if you build your design system, then we'll make a tool that makes it easier for consumers of that design system to use it. So the agents will understand what is actually the components that it can use from the design system and such. So this would interact then with some deployed storybook. Exactly, right. So the idea is that when you deploy a storybook, when you publish a storybook, it'll also publish some JSON files that includes all the information that you put in, like components and props, and maybe you have descriptions, and maybe you have examples. And then the MCP server will pull from that information So that exciting There at least a lot of people that are excited about that but as we know there also people that hate that and that's totally fine you don't have to use it if you don't want it exactly and the cool thing about this is that it's solely separated so because we have a lot of, maybe Brittany can understand but we have a lot of design system users over the years that have been asking us can I please have this information that I put into Storybook? Can I get a way to get it out of Storybook again? Because you want to build your own documentation website or you want to, I don't know, whatever, right? And so we're building that as part of this because we're now building these JSON files or these JSON endpoints that, well, you can consume them however you want. You don't have to use the MTP server. You can also just use them as information. That's cool. I actually just wanted a better way to document within Storybook because I wanted it to live in one place. I was building a separate documentation site at my last job and I, that would have been useful. Yeah. Like just pulling over the stories. I would just throw the storybook link in there if they wanted to go to the story, but then you're like, you're pulling props out again and like having to list all of those, all of your types are being listed out separately. Like it would be easy. And making sure that like, Oh, you changed the component. Yeah. You got to change it in three different places. Yeah. Right. Right. Right. Exactly. Just bound to become a mess. So that's nice. So does that also mean that we can kind of almost build our own front end for Storybook? Sure. Just consuming the JSON files? Yeah. I mean, I guess you could already do that somehow. Yeah, well, so Storybook does a lot of automated, like we automatically extract the prop types from your components and put them in. And so that information will be now available to you at runtime for anything, right? You can also, it's always been possible to embed stories as iframes. And so you could potentially combine this into whatever you want, right? Yeah. There's some really like the power users of design systems, they want their own UI. And that's totally fine. Speaking of that, we're also working on improving the theming support of Storybook. So if you want to use Storybook as the front for your company then making it look great is also important for a lot of people or making it look like your brand And the APIs we have for that now are okay. Yeah, it's kind of difficult now. And so we want to rely more on like the standards, CSS variables and like whatever the web platform provides. You should see my storybook CSS file. It's like it's hitting every specifier, like down the chain, trying to get to the right thing. Yeah. That does not sound fun. No. And so that's also been a requested feature for many of our power users for years that they can make it easier to make their store book look like however they want, like with dark theme and stuff. Yeah. Yeah. Cool. That sounds exciting. Yeah. All right. So I think we are actually running out of time. Brittany, you need to leave in six minutes, I think. Four minutes? I don't know. Something like that. Tight. All right. Can we do unpopular opinions and picks before then? I'm going to skip my unpopular opinion. Does anyone have a short unpopular opinion? I have one. I have one. Okay, go. So I'm doing a lot of project planning lately. not just coding but also planning projects and i like gantt charts i like you know if you have a project and you have multiple team members and then everyone in their head has like i have to do this task and then after that i do that task and then that task and for me that lives inside my head but when i put it on screen as a gantt chart it's like this timeline chart i can see oh wow this task completely is completely impossible to do i have to move it over to that member instead. And it appears that I'm the only one. Well, my old designer used to like them. Exactly. He liked drawing them. It was a good visual for people, I think. I have an opinion about an unpopular opinion, if that makes sense. So my opinion is that there are certain CEOs have unpopular opinions, right? And I think that my opinion on that fact is that ultimately I'm quite happy to see the way the community is responding to should we ditch Svelte should we ditch React should we ditch Next whatever Like the way the community is responding around these things is actually really positive And I not seen much kind of like knee jerk Yeah throw it on the bin start with whatever else Angular whatever's going on nowadays. But, you know, it's been a bit more positive. It's been a bit more like, you know, Svelte is an independent project, Svelte is an independent project, direction is not defined, you know, it's all this kind of cool stuff, which is really heartwarming because it's usually the opposite. So that's my opinion. I agree. Fair enough. Yeah. I mean, the Svelte community in general is very heartwarming. I learned that in Barcelona. People are just so nice to each other. Yeah. It really is the best. I agree. All right. Picks? Anyone? I pick... Can I go? Is that what else? Yeah, go for it. Go for it. Well, I picked Pennsylvania Castle. Not just because I'm in it, but it is really cool. It's really nice. Like a lot of castles you go to are kind of falling apart and cold and everything else. This castle is really plush and nice inside. There's lots of big old rooms. apparently Eisenhower and someone else, three very famous old president-type people, President Eisenhower is one of them, met in one of these rooms to discuss the invasion of, was it the Battle of Bastille? It was somewhere in France. My history is not wonderful, but they met in one of these rooms to decide to invade in historic times. So this castle's got quite a bit of a history behind it. But it's now also got a heated swimming pool, which is right behind me, which is awesome. And it's just cavernous, and you can wander around. And there's a room that's in, like, I mean, none of the listeners can see, but there's a room that's in the turret over there, which is a really cool round bedroom. And one of them's got an armoire that opens up full of clothes, like rotating doors and stuff. It's very cool. Wow. It's very cool. Sounds like a very modern kind of castle. Yeah, it's an ancient castle that's modern. It feels comfortable. I can't explain it yet. But everything inside is old. It's just well maintained. And then Bianca hired all of it. We had the whole castle for the last four days. That's amazing. So we're just having like a retreat. Oh my God, that's amazing. Yeah. And it's been blazing sun apart from today. So we've been swimming in the sea, which is just incredible. Yeah, it's great. On that theme, I'm going to pick Spain because a lot of people like go into Europe,

 I mean, we don't hear very much like Spain is the place to go, but when we were there in Barcelona and then we traveled around Spain and it was just not just the history because you get that in all of Europe, but it's just so beautiful. There's so many castles. Every city was like its own culture and history and it's just, it's crazy. So I'll pick Spain. Good pick. Jepen? Still like Spain. I'll pick something more developing. I'll pick Tubal. So Tubal is this app for pairing, like screen sharing. You call your colleague and then you pair and you share. And it has the best video quality. It has the best like T-U-P-L-E dot app. Oh, yeah, yeah. I think I've heard about this. It's amazing. Like it's just you don't have this lag that you get from Slack and you can type in each other's screens and whatever. It's just, it's really, and I think they built the whole streaming video from the ground up in some assembly language just to make it fast And it is super fast Is it is it topple Topple maybe Topple like like, like two, like a pair. Yes. Oh, like the data structure. Yeah. Like a description. Oh, look who is like a native English speaker. Oh, look at me. I know words. Anyways, it's great. I can really recommend. I'm sure it's, it's also cost stuff. I don't know, Yeah, $30 per user per month. Right. It's really great. We use it every day, multiple hours a day. I mean, that is worth it, for sure. Yeah, if it works, it's definitely worth it. Yeah. All right. And I think with that, we are done because I don't have time for my pick. So thanks, everyone, for listening. And thank you, Jephthah, for joining us. Even if it was a bit short, we can do another one. this longer later. Yeah, do a video one with you too. Yeah, we should do that. And with that said, goodbye everyone. Bye. Until next time. Bye. Bye. Take care. Bye. I'll see you all.