 This week's episode is sponsored by Extrastatic. Extrastatic is a hosting service for Speckle Blogs. Speckle Blogs combine the simple conventions of Jekyll with the incredible power of Svelte. Check it out at Extrastatic.com. Welcome to Svelte Radio. And today we also have a guest, Dominic. Why don't you introduce yourself? Hi, I'm Dominic. I'm a father of four kids. So if you hear any noise in the background, that's one of them. I work as a development lead in the beautiful city of Vienna at Emakina CE, which stands for Central Eastern Europe. And yeah, we are part of EPAM group, if you heard of it. And yeah, it's been a lot of fun with my team of 15 people. Yeah, cool. I can notice there in the background that you're a father with the baby clothing hanging on the washing line there. I didn't notice it until now. It's the reusable diapers. Oh, I see. I see. Cool. So are the kids really young then? The oldest is five and then four and then two and half a year. Oh, full house. Full house, yes. All right, Dominic. So what's your background? My original background is in mechatronics with an emphasis on robotics. I worked in that field for about seven years and then after my first son was born I decided to switch so I always had this hobby of web development so I kind of switched and made my hobby my real work my day job nice cool cool so I guess what you're doing now is you're actually building stuff with Svelte I'm actually building stuff with Svelte and also building stuff without Svelte. Oh, the horror. No, I'm just joking. All right. So do you use mostly Svelte or is there other stuff that you're using more? It depends. When the project allows it, I'll use it. But we have some old legacy projects that still use AngularJS. I mean, it's a project that's seven years old. So there's no real way of using Svelte inside of that project because it's tightly integrated with the C-sharp backend. So, yeah, I mean, we did like an advent calendar in Svelte that was integrated into that old AngularJS website. So there's still ways, but in general speaking, it's not really possible for all of the projects that I'm working on. Yeah, that makes sense. So today I learned that you can write software, right? Without Svelte. I don't understand that. It's a completely new concept to me. You've been in Svelte land for too long. Yeah. You need to venture outside. I've forgotten there was a bubble. Into the darkness. Yeah. So you've been working on a larger kind of Svelkit project lately, right? Yes. Pretty recently, like the end of last year, we launched a pretty huge pre-order platform for one of our grocery chains. where I can pre-order huge bakery stuff. And yeah, we had about eight weeks of development and launched in November last year. Cool Exciting So that been live for quite a bit though Yeah it has been quite a journey And the customer is really happy And they noticed the snappiness of the site And they're really, really happy with it. And they had a bombastic December. The revenue was over the roof. So they were really, really happy with what we built for them. That's cool. Did you, so you, November, that must have been in Svelte Kitt time. That must have been like the stone age almost. Yeah, almost. Like most of the stuff was stable, but there were some, still some issues that we encountered. Like one of them, I think that's partly because of wheat, we had issues. with virtual folders or something like that, where it didn't compile correctly, either in development mode or in live mode. So it was kind of tricky to fix that. Well, you launched the project, I assume you did fix it. Yeah, we kind of fixed it. But yeah. Cool. So what have been your experience? Has it been mostly positive or? Yes, really positive. I mean, I'm the Svelte spearhead, if you want to say, in my company. And I had the pleasure to decide technology on that project. So we were a team of six developers in all, I think, or five developers. And they all enjoyed it, even though they had to do with Svelte and SvelteKit for the first time. So what I really appreciated was onboarding time. it was quick and like considering those eight weeks we had for development that that really helped us in in the process of getting it out there and getting it done a question around obviously SvelteKit being an early stage when you started with it and stuff how did you convince the business that that was something that they should get involved in you know considering it you know this this word people use this phrase production ready you know it's not production ready because it's not got a round number at the start of the version? They don't really care as long as... Like our clients didn really care Okay We just need to deliver something that good and stable Apart from that it our decision And if we mess it up we have to fix it Fair enough. I guess that's why people come to consultancies. Exactly, yes. It's very common for companies to force technologies on agencies as well, although at least in my experience. Well, for us, it's really an issue that technologies are forced. Let's get to work on what you want. Yes, if possible, Svelte, all the way. I mean, I believe the reason why we had not a lot of issues was because we used a static-generated site. so we only had to deal with a part of SvelteKit and not the whole server-side rendering and less code also means less bugs even for Svelte. Yep, definitely true. I have a question then. What is your styling solution? Styling like CSS? Yeah. Yeah, we use Tailwind because one of our front-end developers was already pretty experienced with it. And it really helped have a common predefined language which allowed us to move really, really fast in that as well. So considering those eight weeks, that was also a really important and good decision to make. It's just funny because one of the original reasons that I moved to Svelte was because they had sort of built-in inline styles if we needed it. And then we end up not using it 99% of the time. Well, we still use it for custom stuff. But the general and generic stuff, it's not Tailwind only, but it's called Utility First and not Utility Only. So we were still heavily using and relying on those styles in there. It's interesting with styling nowadays. People seem to love Tailwind. I did an episode of building...

 Svelte Society yesterday, and I had Maddy Ostoja on. She's built something like a CSS custom property, utility-first framework, I guess. So it's like Tailwind, but instead of classes, it uses custom properties. You guys have probably heard of Open Props by Adam Hargai. So it's something like that. I haven't heard of Open Props with Open Props. so so it's pretty much what i described but another variant fair enough yeah yeah so instead of having like i don't know what the tailwind classes are for for padding or whatever you is it p dash two or something like that p dash whatever yeah so you just have a custom property that would be the equivalent of that oh it's basically a tailwind without tailwind if you only relied on CSS variables. Yep, pretty much. Are we already in a post-Tailwind world? I guess we'll see in the coming years. So any downsides? What did you, any problems that you ran into? I mean, mostly the problem that we had was with deployment, but that was not a SvelteKit issue because we were like confined to azure and we were using git lab for deploy like our git repo so the problem there there is no integration so we kind of had to hack around it and build our own ci cd for deploying to azure static websites which worked out in the end but it gave us some trouble in the beginning. Yeah. So other than Azure, do you have a backend API that you're using? We actually have two backend APIs that we're using, one for the admin console and one for the normal pre-order service. Gotcha. Yeah. And what have you used to build that? We used .NET Core, or is it now called just .NET? So this is interesting because I have no idea about anything surrounding or those kinds of things I guess it just like a backend Yeah, it's C Sharp. I think it's also pretty popular in some of the questionnaires about developer questionnaires and what they use and like to use. Historically, our company has built a lot on top of Microsoft and .NET, also the old .NET framework. So we have a lot of experience in that area working with C-sharp and it worked pretty nicely. So we had a static website and C-sharp in the backend and API driven application pretty much. So you don't use any of the .NET frontend stuff at all? No, just API. Cool. All right. So in SvelteKit, what kind of stuff are you feeling like? What's missing in SvelteKit? That's a really hard question that I don't think I have an answer to. Probably looking at a different project where I thought about also using SvelteKit, the E18N stuff is still missing. But that's like a huge topic. and I've followed the issues there on and off on GitHub. And most people mix and match the E18N stuff with translation stuff. And to me, that's totally separate stuff because E18N can be baked in to the framework, but translations can still be up in the air or totally in the hands of the developer, which like with our external CMSs that we usually use in our projects, we don't really care about translations because that's done inside a CMS. Right. Yeah. Yeah, it's one of those things that I never really had to worry about. I've just always been building English language websites pretty much. But I mean, there are a lot of countries a lot of countries where there are multiple languages, right? I assume countries like Switzerland would be a hassle. And you probably wouldn use SvelteKit there until there a proper implementation of internationalization or some solution I don't know who exactly made... There was one great suggestion to have an optional spread, like an optional parameter. So you could have the E18N default folder but you could catch also the non-prefixed E18N version, like the standard language, and would not have to duplicate code, which would be pretty cool. And I think it could be even used for other stuff as well. Sounds interesting. I think optional spread makes internationalization a lot easier than it was previously. that was probably one of the big drivers for adding it I think how do you manage the content the translations where at this project we didn't have any translations it's just an Austrian based company and just German and not even content management we just hard coded in there right that's the future in my opinion hard coded content It just makes it so much easier. I mean, it's not really about the content. It's about the products. And the products can be adapted through the backend admin panel. That makes sense. So, Anthony, you work at a company that builds tourist services. Indeed. And I assume at some point you're going to build something that isn't English. Have you guys thought anything about internationalization? Well, I think the last time I really did internationalization like that, I just kind of rolled my own with a bunch of JSON files that was generated by a tool that we found online that worked well. We did it with Google Spreadsheets before that, honestly. Oh, wow. Yeah, I mean, because ultimately you can always do it within a spreadsheet in the simplest form. You have the sort of key at the start or the English term, and then you have the other languages. You build a bunch of JSON files from it. We do that. We generate that at build time on CI. And then you can switch the language or you publish different sites We published different sites last time so we kind of did multiple bundles But you could also do it dynamically There lots of different options So I don know My requirements for this have not ever been complex enough that I worried about having like this all bells and whistles solution I've always gone with the simplest possible thing and then just upgraded as necessary. We used a tool. I think it was called, like, Lingo Hub or something. They might even have been Austrian. and I wrote, they didn't have any tooling at all around Node. They didn't have anything. And I looked at their API and it was really simple. So I built this little CLI for them. You know, the tool worked perfectly. People in the business could use it easily online. And I wrote the CLI and I sent it to them via their little chat widget and I got absolutely no response. And I thought, well, you know what? I'm not using it anymore. So I haven't decided who I'm going to use next, but how dare you not reply to my CLI that I spent, you know, at least hours writing for you with full tests and everything um but yeah i mean that's the tool seriously the tool worked well and and it for a for a sort of pretty basic multiple language site it worked pretty well so i'd probably start there again start super simple and then and then work my way up and and see what kind of requirements we come up with because i think that ultimately the point where it starts to concern me is not going to be solved by selk anyway because it's the point where you need not internationalization but but i think it's called globalization so it's a thing you do before you internationalize that makes the site work in different like jurisdictions or different regions because so right to left and stuff think yeah things like that but also even the way you display information different countries differs because people in different countries have different opinions on things and so that sort of stuff is for me a lot more complex because it requires a cms that needs a lot of a lot of flexibility a lot of ability to move things around and shift and change things and then we're in deep cms territory and then it gets all rather complicated so yeah that's the bit that that gives me the fear well we kind of came up with a pretty nice architecture we plan on doing aesthetic sites um that's cms driven and it has multiple languages So if there's anything that changes, it kind of triggers the rebuild process. And the nice thing about it is you don't really build pages. You just build page widgets. And those can be organized by the customer.

 or inside of the CMS for each language in whatever way is needed. Ah, interesting. So it's like a CMS-driven generation. And especially thinking about multiple languages and how content is structured different, that could really help. Okay. Yeah, that's interesting. Interesting. So since you used SvelteKit, you also used Svelte? I did. What's the positives and negatives? We used, like stores, we used heavily. We also used actions quite a bit. Some of them I put into my own small packages. I called them sweckages for svelte packages. I was really surprised that that name was still available. so so is that sva so just sv instead of the p exactly yes yeah so i think there should there should be five or so uh on on npm under that namespace and yeah like those really help to to abstract some stuff away and make it easy for us to to handle interactions or focus management was one of the really nice things. Yeah. Yeah, focus is tough. Yes. Accessibility, rather, is hard. It's not that hard. Do you think that Dyspelt should have a bunch of built-in common actions, like focus, things like that, you know, part of the core? I would say no, because they're really easy to write. And it might like to build something that generic might be a greater impact on your lines of code or like the bytes you ship. If compared to when you write something that's custom fit for your project. Yeah. Okay. So it those use cases are easy enough that you can do it yourself in my opinion Yeah that good I mean for stores it might be nice to have the option to have a persistent store that I mean right to local storage. Yeah, okay. Or session storage, depending on the use case. And I think, actually, yeah, I agree with that because it becomes more and more a common requirement, actually. And actually, you can do it if you know what you're doing relatively easily, but for somebody who doesn't despite the documentation saying you know this is a very simple store contract and this is how you do it it's not actually that obvious and i think that it would be good at least to either document this in the doc saying hey look you know here's how you can save something when someone updates a store or to just yeah publish that store that does uh you know persist to whatever whatever is necessary session storage local storage cookies anything like that yeah that that might be a good idea especially for if someone jumps in like relatively new and yeah then wonders where's all my data yeah so this project is there any continuation on it are you gonna keep working on it or are there uh we we kind of built that project for this one client who is part of a bigger company and inside the company there is another like smaller player and it looks like we will redo or re-implement that same solution for them as well with a few tweaks there so but but apart from that i think we're pretty done with development as as far as i know So no new Svelte projects on the horizon or other than that? Not yet, but I'm pretty hopeful that because it worked out really well, that the momentum to do it again would be pretty great. Yeah, that makes sense. Yeah. And I mean, a little side note here, we will like have our research topics this year. We're almost there where we picked all of them out. and all of our front-end guys will have to look at the Svelte tutorial this year. So everyone in my team will know about Svelte. Excellent. Excellent news. Svelte is taking over the world you know Slowly step by step It a fact today Fact Not really but soon Soon When someone says it's a fact, it often isn't a fact. Is that a fact? That is actually a fact. That is a fact. Wait a minute. All right, so you told us before here that you were just accepted as a speaker at at a conference. Yes, I was really excited yesterday. I got the, like I applied as a speaker at We Are Developers this year. It's in June in Berlin, like an in-person conference. And I'll be there speaking about SvelteKit and the project that we did. And I think it will be great and really exciting to have SvelteKit and Svelte even more in the spotlight than it already is. Yeah, yeah, exciting. So I guess you haven't started planning for the talk yet. I kind of did because we will do an internal presentation and so some of the slides will make it into the talk there. Yeah, so that's like a preliminary presentation to make sure it's from the organizer side? No, no, no. That's like an internal presentation that we plan to do because we'll want to use the project as a showcase. Ah, I see. So we will put all the information, make all the information available inside of our company and then marketing can take over from there. Yep. All right. Yeah, I thought you meant like an internal talk for the conference. No, no, no, no. I'll just reuse some of the slides there. Yep, that makes sense. So go ahead, Sean. Oh, well, for those who haven't seen the pictures, I think We Are Developers is one of the bigger conferences in Europe. And for American developers, European conferences, when they go big, they go really big. So I remember, I think this is before the pandemic though, So I not sure what changed but I remember that they one of the conferences that has sort of the wall to wall screens just giant like you look tiny compared to the screens So it a very impressive venue So congrats on getting that kind of talk And looking forward to seeing you represent Svelte there. I think it will not be on the main stage, but even still. We can hope. Well, is that the kind of venue I need for Svelte Summit in fall? Yes, giant screen. Yeah, you need that, but it will be very expensive. Yeah, yeah. I've been hunting for venues, and I've got a couple that I'm closing in on. So, yeah. Oh, we forgot to talk about Svelte Summit spring. It's announced. I don't think we talked about that last episode. So, yeah, there's a new Svelte Summit coming up April 30th. You can submit talks. You can sponsor. You can spread it around Twitter. You can sign up to the newsletter. And I guess that's the pitch. It's not a very good pitch, but it's a pitch. All right. So before we head off into unpopular opinions, let's talk a bit about the Svelte community in Austria and Vienna. Is that something that exists? It's not a thing yet. And as you can imagine, with four kids, full-time job, and in addition to that being a musician, there is not a lot of time left if I want to do all the other stuff really well. That sounds like a time crunch. It is, yeah. But I met one guy who's also in Vienna who has a company who tries to do a lot of Svelte stuff. And maybe in the long run, there will be something happening in Vienna. I mean, that would be really cool. But right now, I don't see how I could manage the time. Yeah, makes sense. I really like Vienna. I need a reason to go there. Mannerschnitten. It's enough reason to come. What is that? that's uh little waffles with chocolate in between like layers so that's one of the that's one of the things that vienna is famous for the manas yeah yeah sounds like a good reason to go to vienna yeah um yeah so i think anthony you put this here on the on the show notes

 oh yes right so i mean decathlon uh obviously it's a global brand and it's all over europe and stuff and they've been running uh the new decathlon site which is written in svelte i don't know if it's sapper or svelte or whatever else um we've been running that for actually a year or so now but they had not rolled out the uk site and it was still using whatever it used before it was very slow and pretty awful to navigate and i just went on the other day and ta-da it's not only got a picture of decathlon's hq which is literally down around the corner from my house which is which is weird because it's a company um not only has it got that but it's all svelte kit and it's just super nice to use and the reason i noticed actually is because they've done that you know where they have that typewriter text where you you see a word and it says like search for products search for rails their search bar has a little typey thing saying search for products search for brands search for you know and it's kind of cool i quite like it um but yeah it's cool that they've now rolled out and it must be nice for them too to have the same the same thing running in every country um but it's just really good to use and i put it on twitter and a bunch of people who are local to me here were like wow that is easy to use and you know much more much more fluent and and fast and snappy and so awesome another reason that's what is taking over the world indeed indeed you heard it here first people fact fact all right okay is there anything else that you want to talk about before we head into unpopular opinions? I don't think so. All right. So, Anthony, take it away. Okay. So, I'm going to not just mention the name of this site because it's quite a big site. And to be fair, the core staple of their product does actually work pretty well. But everything else around it is just trash. and it made me think you know but i was trying to resolve this problem with them and they were just i went through five levels of support their support staff until i got to like the person who runs support i guess and that person actually trash talked to the other levels of support which has happened before with this with this site and you know saying oh another department our company is useless and i'm like seriously like even even if it wasn't even if it is which it definitely is um that's not what the company line should be right that yeah our support stuff suck um yeah that pretty bad so yeah so no names mentioned but i say that i guess when you building a product and you know you got some tech that or else you got two forks to go down one is you either fix your product so it works and it's self-serve and if it isn't which this product really isn't then at least have good support that are knowledgeable and know what they're doing you can't have both being crap right because it makes the product completely unusable and you're sort of locked into it and you're stuck there with this complete mess and and my ultimate line to support was i'm basically leaving you as soon as possible because i'm done i'm fed up uh and what else can you do you know you just if they can't fix it you stuff yeah yeah and their dogs suck as well which just you know icing on the cake so yeah my rant is basically do better you know i don't i don't think that's an unpopular opinion. No, it probably isn't, I guess. It's probably just an opinion. Should we rename this to Rants slash Unpopular Opinions? It's always the Rants. Yeah. What we've learned here is that ultimately all of my unpopular opinions, because of my influence, are actually just becoming opinions, becoming popular opinions. Fact. I don't know about that No, it's fact, I just said it Yeah, definitely fact Of course, of course, 100% Alright, I don't have an unpopular opinion Sean looks like he has an unpopular opinion I've got a quick one So I've been working on a kind of a starter project for SvelteKit called SwixKit Mostly it is an integration test for the Netlify adapter, which I feel almost like professionally obliged to help maintain. But also I think it was a nice playground because I didn't rewrite for my own personal site to SvelteKit from ElderJS. And SuixKit was kind of like a standalone template that people can grab and go. And one of the main changes I made was I was very tired of checking in, making Git commits every time I wanted to change content. So I was looking for a lightweight CMS solution that doesn't involve paying content for like $100 or something. I sure they have a good free tier but I wanted to sort of keep it keep the stack light So I was very inspired by OneGraph which uses GitHub issues as their CMS And it fits most of my criteria, which is that it needs to accept a markdown. It needs to have easy, mobile-friendly editing. And it needs to be able to just paste in images. I don't want to have a whole separate image upload process and all that that's super complicated. I just want to be able to copy something to my clipboard and paste it in and then just have it all done correctly. And then as a nice bonus, having also social reactions and comment layers. So GitHub Issues has all of that. And so I created GitHub Issues as CMS and everything seems to work. And when I demoed it recently to some guys from Stackbit, they were just blown away. I had a call with them. They were supposed to demo me stuff. And I was like, oh, yeah. You know, I mentioned it on my site. And then they were like, wait, wait, wait. What is that? And then show us that. And they were very impressed. So try it out if you want. There's an easy sample code that you can grab. It's actually not that difficult if you use the GitHub issues API. That's an interesting idea. You can even write Svelte components in the GitHub issue. And then if you set up the build chain right, You can actually have interactive components from GitHub issues. Because ultimately, you're just putting in text. And you're just taking out text. And then you can just build that into your useful compile toolchain. Something to explore. Cool. All right. Dominic, you have an unpopular opinion? Yes, I do. Let's see how unpopular it is. like coming from robotics and uh my approach uh to tools um like has always been to use the right one so like um if i have a hammer i don't try to make everything a nail that kind of approach um so my unpopular opinion is that also for that it also is is for svelte that it's not the right tool for every problem that we encounter. And that we should even when we fame boys that we should think about where we need the tools that meet our criteria Like as Sean mentioned GitHub meets all his criteria GitHub issues as a CMS So that's like an awesome example of using the right tool or the fitting tool for the problem that's at hand. Yeah, that seems like a popular opinion, but probably one that most people don't adhere to. well maybe not most but a lot of people don't adhere to it we can't we can't run in this section to popular opinions yeah my um my counter to that is that right tool for most jobs is actually better than right tool for the job um because ultimately there's only there's a limit to how many tools you can know. That's my modification. Alright. I guess we go into pics, and I haven't figured one out, so I'll let you guys go first before I... Fair enough. Look around your room. Yeah, right. Kev famously has nothing in his room. He just sits in a room with a desk and nothing else in a chair. That is true. It's very Scandinavian, isn't it? Very minimalist. minimal is decide yeah um i okay so i do sorry okay no go ahead go ahead okay uh so i do have a pick um and it's weirdly this is not on my desk today i was going to put it here and i haven't done but so a company called pine they're known for making sort of i guess at cost hardware which is interesting so they make a laptop called the pine book and subsequently a pine book pro uh they're basically laptops running linux on um they have been around for a while but they're constantly out of stock because they don't have any sort of real as far as i understand process for manufacture delivery everything else logistics because they they're just literally selling them at the cost that they that they make them out so you kind of if you're looking on the site and you see something you can order one and they they say things like don't return them because we can't afford to deal with the returns process because we're not making any profit is but it's but it's great because it's very kind of like you know we're just making something because we were passionate about it so i've been looking at these for a while i've wanted to get one just because i really want an arm-based laptop um and linux doesn't quite run on m1 yet and i say i've been looking at this for probably about three years and they're never ever in stock so i went on ebay started looking for one and found one there ordered it

 I've paid a slight premium, but it's a great little laptop. Really neat, really well made. I think the actual manufacturer is Clevo. So it's like a rebounded Clevo, but it's nice, high quality, feels nice. It is a bit on the slow side because obviously it's just a rock chip, you know, sort of tablet-based processor, but really good battery life, of course, being ARM-based. It runs Linux as well. It's got its own custom distribution based on Manjaro. And I've noticed when I was looking at their site, they're releasing the PinePhone as well. so that pine phones out now in the wild a little phone a pine phone yeah a purely open source linux based phone um it is apparently very very very rudimentary right now so you kind of turn the phone on the first time you might get a screen full of text instead of an actual ui but uh you know that's well that's kind of how these things start they start off you know very basic and and the community and hackers and stuff get on and sort of start helping build it out and making something really nice community built so my pick i guess is a pine book pro because i've got one but ultimately i really like the company pine as a whole a company entity whatever they are um i think it's really brave to go into this without any view to making profit but it definitely shows a good degree of honesty and and sort of niceness around it and actually their groups are quite um alive active with with people discussing the hardware they made a pine watch as well i I can't remember what it's called. Pine Time? Pine Time. Pine Time's the one, yeah. So that's another interesting thing. I love all this. Pretty funny name. Yeah. Yeah, it's pretty cool. I mean, all this stuff is all obviously ultimately hackable. So very interesting stuff. Yeah. Yeah. Good. You haven't mentioned for the Pine Book Pro, the leading thing that I felt like it's important to mention was that the whole thing is $200. Yes. And you get pretty standard hardware for that. I'm reading the specs, and it's like 64-bit dual-core ARM with 1.8 gigahertz, a GPU, 4GB of RAM, pretty standard, decent specs. Yeah, but for a price of $200. Which is unusual. It has NVMe support as well, so you can boot off a super fast hard drive and stuff. Actually one thing I didn mention that I should mention the whole thing runs off 5 volts so you can charge it from a phone battery which is really really interesting You can plug the power supply into a USB port and charge it I mean, that's just cool. Is that great? Yeah. Nice pick. All right. So I'll go next. So I think what prompted this one was your video that you released yesterday, Sean. You made a video about DSLRs as webcams. Okay. Tell me more. Yeah, so I actually did this a couple of weeks ago. So I'm using also a DSLR as a webcam. And I find the picture quality to be a lot better than a webcam. But it's, I don't know, like, it's a nice thing, but I'm not sure if it's worth it, like monetarily, financially. but if you do it as a job it's definitely something to look into like if you want to record stuff in a higher quality yeah the feedback that I got from that video was that you know lighting is actually going to do a lot more for you as well as having a nice backdrop what you're seeing right now what we're recording with is my Logitech webcam and it obviously does a good enough job I just wanted to try it since it seems so popular by a lot of streamers and people who care about video. I think having the bokeh effect is also really nice. But these are luxuries I don't have. I have a very small room. I don't have the ability to rearrange things too much. So I don't know. I think you make do with what you have. And so far, I haven't been very impressed by my $500 investment in this setup. Okay. Oh, that's too bad. So maybe that's my unpopular opinion that I don't like the DSLR setup so far. But no, I'm sure I'm sure like I also haven't invested a lot in learning about like white balance and focus and stuff like that. So I think there's just a lot. There's a huge step going from simple webcam to DSLR setup. Absolutely. And I always wonder, like, I feel like someone should just make a higher end webcam that has the mirrorless DSLR setup kind of baked in. that connects through USB because uh and is powered by USB um because that would basically fill a huge gap in the market that um uh people are currently filling like in a DIY fashion They just want a very high quality video experience without all the hassle Yeah. Someone should go make that. Yeah. I mean, sorry. Yeah. I was just going to say like the, the, the troubles you have to go through to actually power it using like those dummy batteries and you need like a, yeah. It's so stupid. It's the wrong thing for the job. Video capture card. Probably is. Yeah. And, you know, it's also certain cameras as well because they have to hold something open to stop them overheating. I can't remember the exact terminology. Basically, it's something in there will overheat normally, even if you've got clean HDMI. But I think also, you know, a lot of the cost of a DSLR is actually the lens. And so I wonder if a webcam that has that kind of quality lens on it to give you that bucking to give that picture is going to be any cheaper than just buying a dslr so i don't know yeah a lot less hassle though like shul says someone should make it though like i think i saw something called opal but that's that's just like a webcam with like multiple cameras something like that i don't know was it maybe multiple microphones i don't know interesting It seems to be mostly marketing, but I guess we'll see. As you call it, FlyEye. Oh, right. Like a fly's eye with all the lenses. That's my pick. So I guess it's my turn. So I'm going to pick the State of JS 2021. I don't think we've picked that yet because it came out while we were off. So it might be a bit old news, but maybe some people haven't heard about it. There's an annual survey that surveys the state of JavaScript, and we always try to send people there because we want to represent Svelte in a nice way. I think we had a good year this year, maybe not as good as last year where we were just number one in everything. But also this year was the first year that SvelteKit was featured, and SvelteKit debuted as the top sort of full stacky type framework head of Astro and Fastify and XJS. Obviously, all of this is to be taken with a grain of salt because when we say top, we just mean in terms of satisfaction, which doesn't account for the actual popularity of the project. By actual popularity Express is still the top full stack sort of back type framework and then followed by Next And I was actually digging into the NPM downloads recently React is still growing very quickly, and Next.js is accelerating within React. So it just seems like a behemoth, and everyone else is kind of rushing to catch up. So that's the state of JavaScript. Any other takeaways that you guys saw? well well Svelte Radio is the top other podcast this year again it was last year yeah thanks for people writing yeah you have to write that in thanks to everyone who did that that's a very nice gesture it's like yeah I don't know it's like an extra award isn't it because you're not taking a book you have to write it that's cool exactly yeah write-ins are very meaningful. I was also the bottom-ranked influencer. Oh, no. I'm on the list, though. Do you consider yourself an influencer? That's not the name. I forget what they called it, but I was just making fun of myself. I'm sure you're going to rise. I'm bottom-ranked, but at least I'm on the list. yeah but also also the the surface what do you call it the end the end thing the write-up is by is by sean so you know he's that's true influencing oh yeah yeah so yeah that was a big milestone for me like when i was actually joining uh learning javascript i actually interviewed sasha about the state of javascript and uh yeah then he he dm'd me to invite me to write the conclusion this year and yeah, that was a huge honor. Yeah, congrats. Nice, yeah. All right, Dominic. I guess that leaves me. My pick is Regex Search and Replace in VS Code. It helped me so many times refactor really efficiently and it's very, very powerful like with capture groups inside of your search query. and for those who don't know, you can kind of reuse your capture groups in the replace again. So when you want to have like capture all class strings inside of your HTML,

 and capture all the classes that you use, you can reuse that pretty easily and structure it in the way you like. So that helped me out very often to refactor 40, 50, 100 files at once and never had an issue with it. Nice. I always have to look up capture group syntax. I'm still not very confident with it. Same. Yeah. Regex is... I should learn that. I used it very often, but I still go to regexer first and then try out all the possible combinations that I'm looking for because I don't want to mess it up. Yeah. Yeah, I didn't know you could do that with a search and replace. Yeah, it's pretty neat. Especially when you want some part of your search parameter to be moved back into the replace string Yeah, exactly. Cool. All right. So I think that's us. I think we got through all of the questions, all of the unpopular opinions, all the popular opinions, all the picks, all the rants, everything. All the neither popular or unpopular things. Exactly. So, Dominik, where can people find you? I'm on Twitter. Sometimes, when I have time, I also jump into Discord, Svelte Discord. And, yeah, that's where people can find me. Awesome. thanks for coming on and telling us about your SvelteKit in production project and yeah yeah thanks for having me to everyone else always a pleasure so to everyone else we'll see you all next episode whenever that's going to be bye everyone bye bye