 Here's a quick word from our sponsor. Welcome to the new era of content management with Contentful. Say goodbye to the limitations of traditional content systems and hello to a world where collaboration sparks innovation. With Contentful, you're not just managing content, you're creating content-first, multi-brand experiences across all channels effortlessly. The best part? It requires zero coding. Empower your teams to collaborate and innovate, delivering impactful digital experiences at scale. Contentful's AI-driven platform not only streamlines content creation, but also ensures it aligns perfectly with your brand. Ready for a game changer? Start with Contentful for free today. Unleash the potential of your digital content and drive your business forward. Learn more at contentful.com. welcome to svelte radio hey welcome everyone it's another svelte radio episode this is a new intro i'm joined today by my co-host anthony hello hello hey and we have a Another guest today, Jacob Sturdahl. Hello. Welcome. Hey, how's it going? Thanks for having me. Yeah, thanks for joining us. Before we get into it, let's hear some status updates from Anthony and myself. What have you been working on? What have I been working on? Mostly stuff to enter the American market, surviving the American market, mostly around taxes, which is great fun. Apart from that, I had COVID. That was fun. Again. And yeah, just general stuff. So is this American market feature stuff thing, is that why you're going wild on Twitter with regards to biking? No, it doesn't make a difference to me whether people drive or not in America. It's just I do believe that America is, and to a great extent the UK, is owned by the car lobbies and people can't see it. Like you don't need a car to go everywhere. Big car It is big car But I mean the thing about big car as we say big farmer big car but big car is real like it is literally the main car companies that lobbied against having any other form of transport that's why you got roads with no pavements it's just stupid or roads with no sidewalks it's just it's just owned by cars right and it's it's kind of it's infuriating and kind of sad really yeah i've been lately i've been working on getting dynamic og images i think that's the word for for uh svelte summit which has been frustrating and fun at the same time i've been using a did you use jeff richard's code for that i did use some parts of it yeah but i've i've adopted it a bit but yeah we do that as well i'll talk more about it in the pics but yeah jacob Hello. Welcome again. Hello. Who are you? Why are you here? Do you want to give us a short intro? Sure. Yeah, I'm a software engineer. I work at a company called Styletics. We can talk about what I do a bit later. But yeah, I'm a self-taught software engineer, web developer. I started, gosh, 2015. I took my first college course on basic HTML. CSS3 had just gotten released. We learned Bootstrap 3, I think, was out at the time. So I was kind of at the tail end of that sort of old Web2 stuff. And so, yeah, I worked in... Well, I guess my journey to full-time development is kind of interesting. But eventually, I started doing WordPress freelance development. I really leaned into that during when the pandemic started. and then shortly after that discovered Svelte and kind of have been bullish on Svelte ever since. Yeah, I get to write Svelte full-time, which is really nice. And yeah, that's me, yeah. That's not very common to be able to write Svelte full-time. No, I actually, I got coffee with Rich when he was here in Minneapolis filming with Front End Masters and he was shocked that I was full-time writing Svelte. Like he doesn't know anyone that, Even places like New York Times, people that use it heavily, they're not writing it full-time. But yeah, all the code I write is TypeScript and Svelte, which is really, really fun. Yeah. Sounds like a dream. A dream that many want to live. So you mentioned briefly before we started recording that you came from a WordPress background Do you miss the good old days of WordPress I don't. No. I don't know. I do really like, and maybe this is my unpopular opinion, number two, is I like PHP. It's really nice. I think the syntax is great. I love writing HTML. in the middle of my, like, it feels very, like, Svelte in that way, combining your control flow with your templates. Like, I really, I really liked it. But with dealing with clients and, like, plugins, like, those two aspects of doing WordPress development is awful. I hated that, because clients think they know everything if they've used WordPress before, and they don't. And they will throw whatever plugin in the world in there, and then you have to deal with it. But so shortly after learning about Svelte, and then around that same time, I also learned about Sanity, which I think is the best headless CMS. I moved all my freelance projects to that stack because it was just so much faster. I don't need to buy a server. I could just chuck it up on Netlify or Vercel or whatever and deploy stuff for free, which is a game changer for me. and yeah having like the git workflow built in and all that sort of stuff that we get we kind of all just take advantage of and it's just kind of table stakes now at the time for me that was huge like i had tried to move my wordpress stack to like get auto releases and all that stuff it was just a pain yeah yeah i remember using back in so i used to do some wordpress development way way back and i remember there was something called bedrock which is like you kind of do modern development yeah but it was still very finicky i remember it was pretty uh pretty rough rough around we've got um we've actually moved our main home page or moving our main home page to wordpress from svelte which is you know the devil but the reason being because it's easy for people to edit right without to go through the development team, which is, you know, fair. And we've also moved our, the company required their site across. We've built a site for someone else in WordPress as well, like a provider. And I'm probably the world's smallest fan of WordPress. No, the world's least fan of WordPress. I don't know. You know, I don't like WordPress. But what I will say is that with a plugin called Simply Static we now push all the sites to bunny CDN so that WordPress is never exposed to the public and that makes me a lot happier So all that they're seeing is static files in the CDN and that I can handle because it ultimately turns WordPress into kind of like a crappy web builder, which is basically what it is. But we never have to contend with anything being exposed to real people, which is great. Yeah, or hackers. Well, exactly. exploits 629 known CVs on the CV database, et cetera. Yeah, definitely. One a week. Yeah, I mean, it's improved in the back of the day, but it's still bad. Yeah, I guess it's the fact that WordPress runs most of the web as well. Yeah, exactly. It's well exposed. But it's also the whole, the plugins are a mess and they're the root cause of most of the issues it has. And it's a hard job because it's like a marketplace. The thing that annoys me is in the marketplace, they don't vet them, right? So they've got plugins there that don't work with the current version. So why show them to me? I don't want to throw a plugin that may not work. It's crap. So, yeah. Yeah. All right. Yeah. Yeah, I mean, my policy was always just, if you want a plugin to do a thing, I will find the plugin and I will install it and make sure that it's going to work with everything else that's going on. But I do agree that even just the improvements of the block editor in recent versions of WordPress, people like to shit on it a lot, but it's really powerful for a lot of different stuff. You just have to know what you're doing. If you can generate static pages and put them on a CDN, there's no issues. It's going to be the same, just as performant as a Svelkit website, maybe even more so. And then your people can edit content, which that's where the value is. Like if your client can't edit their stuff, it's not really valuable to them. They're not really getting what they're paying you for, right? Yeah. I would say that the only thing I have is I would say that obviously the HTML output from these builds isn't particularly great. And so you may have the performance. Your Lighthouse scores may look great, but your actual real performance might be less so. It's likely to be less so, especially if you're using Elementor or anything like that. Yeah. Right. Okay, so Jacob, what do you actually do when you're writing Svelte at work? Yeah, it's so incredibly niche, but it's been really, really fun.

 I guess I'll kind of talk about what Styletics is at a high level first, and then we talk about what I do and what my team does with Svelte. So we build a content platform that allows e-commerce retailers, some of the biggest brands in the world, to basically bundle their products into merchandisable bundles. So the most common is outfits. A lot of our customers are apparel retailers. I think, let me see if ones I can name. I think Nike is a really big one. So you go to a Nike page looking for a t-shirt, and then you scroll down the page, and there's a JavaScript widget that's like a carousel of outfits that contain that shirt. And so it's kind of like giving you outfit inspiration. It's hopefully you're going to, it's like cross-selling, incentive buying of other products that you wouldn't normally have maybe seen as a visitor. And so we do this full stack from importing their catalogs to showing the widgets on their page. We do the whole thing at scale for some of the biggest retailers in the world. So it's been a really cool challenge. The back end entirely is written in Clojure. So I don't really touch that stuff because I don't know Clojure. But then the front end, we're shipping. People might know third-party JavaScript is often what it's referred to. You put a script tag in your HTML, that downloads, and then usually immediately invoked function expression is run. We also now are shipping ES modules because they're supported in the browsers. But most people use the sort of old-fashioned, iffy bundle. And so then you have this widget on the page and it is all the UI is all Svelte. This is what we choose to use. So we are we're shipping. Gosh, we just launched so many products. We had like what we call August market week. So we launched, I think, four new products that are completely new alongside our existing like six or seven different widgets. And so they're just kind of different user experiences on top of this content that we produce internally. So we have a team of stylists that use our internal sort of AI machine learning tools to produce these outfits based on different attributes and different sorts of criteria It a really really cool backend system And then yeah we just fetch data from an API render our Svelte component pass it props and we have a widget Yeah. In terms of when you're building this widget, are you using SvelteKit or is it straight up Svelte? What's the situation right there? Yeah, we're just using Svelte. I've thought about building a SvelteKit. So we have one widget that does actually have routing built into it, but it's like hash-based routing that gets appended to the page URL that the widget is loaded on. So I would love to build a SvelteKit adapter that could basically morph the routing to be that sort of hash-based routing. And so you could have this SvelteKit application that still has a server somewhere, but could attach its routing inside of an application. I haven't explored that, because we only have one product that actually uses this routing, hash-based routing. So it's not a really pressing issue, but it's definitely something I want to research. But no, we actually ship with Vite and just Svelte. It's basically an SPA that gets rendered. And so what we do is we have a JavaScript class. When the function runs, when you download the script, that class is appended to the window, and then the client has to call new widget and then pass it some sort of configuration. So we need to know the div that you want to insert the widget into, and then some other configuration for the API and the display layer. And so yeah, it's just a Svelte and V build. Yeah, I was gonna say that sounds pretty, pretty standard when it comes to like attaching it to some element. It's how you would really do most, attach most things to. Yeah, yeah. And so yeah, we have a little layer on top of how the, you know, you call new app or whatever you imported your swell component as. We have the class kind of wraps that. And so we can do things like AB testing. Like if the user is on the control side of an AB test, we don't need to render the component at all. We just like hide it and then maybe send some analytics or something like that. So that's why we don't just have the client instantiate like the swell component because we have some other logic that runs kind of before it's rendered. But you could just import the Svelte component and render it in the same way. It's pretty much the same. Cool. So you... Hmm. That interesting I love to hear more about how it AI stuff sounds intriguing as well Maybe that proprietary though how they use the AI to create new styles I guess they take products and then just, I don't know. Is that something you can talk about? I don't know. And honestly, I don't know much about it. I think it's mostly just, that's why we still have a huge team of human stylists. So they're kind of like, my understanding of it is that they're giving feedback to these models that are producing this content based off of different attributes. You know, we have like style attributes, color attributes, textile, fabric attributes, like all this sort of stuff is like attached as metadata to these items. And then there's some process. Honestly, I'm really ignorant to it because I just kind of fetch from the API and throw it into the HTML. But honestly, the cool thing about how well it works is that we've started to experiment with building sort of aggregation APIs on top of the Clojure APIs. So we have these sort of generic APIs where you can fetch outfits that are already created. You can fetch items based on similarity. We call our replacements. So maybe this is a feature that we sell to people like Upsell. well, instead of just showing the outfit as it exists, what if you allowed the user to swap items in and out? And maybe they like this outfit, but they want a different purse or a different set of earrings or something. And so we have a whole API where you can send it a list of item IDs and it will return adequate replacements for those items. And so they're kind of really generic. And so we've explored building like Fastify APIs that sort of aggregate these into different shapes, doing multiple fetch calls, but just as like a way for us to prototype like what does a different API experience look like and what user experiences could that sort of enable us to do? Like I prototyped, this isn't something we're doing, so it's fine that I'm talking about it, but say you add something to your cart, similar to like at the grocery store, you see packs of gum at the checkout. What if we could recommend accessories, purses, jewelry, those sorts of things that go with the item that you just added to your cart? And so I built that sort of Fastify API that aggregated these two different APIs together. And yeah, it worked really, really well because at the base, it's these AI ML models that are producing really really good results And we just kind of have to figure out the best ways to display it to users which is really fun Right Yeah I always like wonder how how these e websites figure out like, uh, these combination deals. If I don't know if that's how you call it, but like below an item, it could be like, Oh, this item is often bought with these trousers or whatever. I know how Amazon does it. I guess this is a more... They probably just do a lot of people buy this item with this item. I think they just ship random stuff together because it's usually rubbish. It doesn't make any sense. It could be. Yeah. So when it comes to building with Svelte and then this particular use case, are there any particular Svelte features that stand out as very good or very bad? well like what's the i well honestly i i've you know these i always compare building what we do to like building like a like a first party like platform or something that's like way more complex the really nice thing that i like is generally the uis are are a lot simpler and so i find things like i'm building a widget right now that's new that uses a single store as sort of a state machine globally because it's like less than 15 components. It's like really, really simple. And so I've been loving just using stores and how sort of portable they are. We have sort of this global, we call it the DB. And so the app can just sort of automagically update as the user interacts. And it's not even a custom store. It's just a writable with an object in it. And you just make sure that object is a flat object and off to the races. It works wonderfully. I think, yeah, I don't know. I would have to think if there's stuff in Svelte that I don't like. I do think that the patterns introduced with runes that are going to come up are better. I think skewing the language of JavaScript in a Svelte file has always felt a little weird. I will say that I think Svel and the way that it kind of messes with the JavaScript language enabled me to learn JavaScript. So I tried to learn JavaScript in college, and I didn't get it. I was an art kid. I liked the DOM. I was a graphic designer.

 I did not understand functions or programming at all, what a variable is. I couldn't understand it. It was so visual. And so I tried to learn React, and I find that this JavaScript abstraction on top of JavaScript doesn't really help you learn JavaScript. But if you know HTML, and you have this HTML abstraction on top of it, and you can sort of sprinkle in JavaScript, that's really what enabled me to start to learn and really get it, which I think is really, really cool. But I think that there's a foot gun there where if you don't understand why or how Svelte is doing this magic, you don't understand why export let is weird. Right. Or the dollar label. You don't know what labels are. And now in my work, I need to know what labels are. Whereas before, when I was just doing website building, I didn't need to care about labels. So I think it is really good for beginners, And I do push beginners often to just look at Svelte because I feel like it makes it more fun to learn JavaScript because you can actually just get stuff on the page without needing to know what a React fragment is or all the weird stuff that you have to know when you learn React. Yeah, mapping over an array to get things out and stuff like that. It's also the fact that you can just use, you don't even have to use the script tag or the style tag at first, right? You can just write HTML straight up. and then get something on there. Yeah, and yeah, when I was restarting, that's exactly what I did. It's just HTML as components, basically, is all it needs to be. Especially I was building static websites that didn't even need the content updated. And so I would just, yeah, it was just componentizing HTML, which was, yeah, my biggest gripe with building just static HTML pages was the copy-pasting. And so I feel like, yeah, Svelte is a really good middle ground in that regard. Yeah, agreed. I guess we're tooting our own horns here. Is that a saying? Yeah, I think it's a saying. Is it the correct one, though? That's the question. All right. So embedding, Svelte, you mentioned before we started recording that you wanted to explore maybe building a meta framework. What's the idea there? yeah I toyed with this idea for god it must be a year And I have a prototype built But basically I heard about the Streams API It's supported in all the browsers now. And so the biggest issue that we always run into, and anyone who's built third-party JavaScript knows this pain. This is why I added in my Twitter bio that my goal is to make you hate third-party JavaScript less. Because we get scrutinized in B2B SaaS more than anyone. because some executive will run a lighthouse score and see that we're impacting their performance by two points and they want to throw the whole contract out the door. And it's just, you know, so many people have this sort of negative connotation around third-party JavaScript. And so I thought, you know, what if we could sort of learn from SvelteKit a little bit, but sort of make our own meta framework that's purpose-built for third-party JavaScript, where you sort of have this thin client. Right now we have a bunch of logic that runs in the client's browser. They're fetching data from multiple APIs for AP testing and actual data and other things. We're running a bunch of computation and then rendering something and maintaining all the event listeners so that sort of hydration that happens in the browser. So what if instead of that, you had this really thin client that all it did was fetch from a server and that server returned streamed HTML and you put it in your dev. And all of that other logic, computation, API requests, data fetching, whatever else happens on the server. And then we just hydrate. After that HTML is added, before the user needs to interact with it, we just update and hydrate. And so I don't know the best way to solve this. I've looked at the VSSR might be a good way I want to start playing with that in the next couple of weeks. But I think, I don't know, I also don't, you know, it's such a niche problem. What we're doing now works fine enough, and we write good enough code that in general we can prove we don't have a negative impact in Lighthouse scores, which is for some reason the metric that everyone seems to want to die over. I don't really understand it. Yeah, it's a number that they think is objective. And it's frustrating that a lot of these people that have a problem with it, they don't really understand what it means in reality, right? If you go and use our widgets they incredibly fast and performant and really nice to interact with And the actual perceived performance by the user is incredible And so yeah I don know Maybe we build this framework And if we do, I'd love to do a Svelte Summit talk about it because it'd be really cool. But we'll see. I don't know. I feel like it's too niche. Not a lot of people are shipping third-party JavaScript. But who knows? Maybe it's useful to other companies and other people could contribute. I don't know. I don't know. I feel like there's a lot of companies that have embedded stuff. that could like it's probably not their their main kind of product right but but often you see companies have like this extra widget thing that you could just kind of bed we have part of their suite so yeah our whole business is built on that in fact having there you go yeah yeah you have a customer yeah it's definitely it's definitely not a niche yeah i mean that's how i found felt actually was building third-party widgets for getting like Klan or whatever they call it, like getting a loan when you're at checkout. Yeah. We're building one of those for a Danish DIY store or whatever. And that's how I found Svelte. That's very random. You find Svelte in the least expected way. Yeah. But it was the only one that could produce. And then you realize you've been doing everything wrong. Yeah. No, is there anyone that could produce a single standalone file to include them in the site that would make a widget rather than including Vue library as well or React or whatever? Ah, right. Yeah, that makes sense. Yeah, and that's the big reason I think in my Selt Summit talk in the spring I mentioned that it's kind of the obvious choice to me because I've seen people ship widgets. Before I was at Stylitics, I worked as the web manager for the largest technical college here in the Twin Cities in Minneapolis. And we had a vendor sell us this thing. It wasn't my decision to pay for it. Someone else in leadership decided. And yeah, it was using React. They were shipping the whole React library to our website for this little tiny button that floats in the corner and is like a chatbot thing. Worth it. And yeah, it's ridiculous. And so, yeah, Svelte kind of is the obvious choice, I feel like, for this use case, because all you have to do is bundle the output, really. And if it's simple enough, you don't even really need to do that. That's it. Which is really cool We had no bundling at all It was great It just compile the output and use it Yeah I hadn thought about the React like having to ship React or Vue or whatever. That makes it so much worse. Cool. You want to, I guess we touched on runes already, but do you want to talk a bit more about that? What do you think? Is it, I don't know. No one? I think they're, I don't know. I was really skeptical at first. Again, I feel like maybe I, everyone talks about React Brain. I feel like I had Svelte Brain. Like it's hard to see the things that have been the most constant change. But after playing with them a little bit in the playground, I think that it kind of unifies and makes the language a lot more cohesive. Like, yeah, reading the blog post with that bulleted list of all these issues that runes will solve. It kind of solves all the things, all the foot guns that you can run into. Again, like I said, if you don't understand how the magic works and you're building a complex application, runes hopefully will take care of a lot of that and make it a lot simpler. Everyone's talking about getters and setters being bad. Everything in JavaScript is an object. Learn getters and setters. It's how the platform works. They're really great. and hopefully there will be some utility I've heard talks about. Oh yeah, I think in the live stream yesterday, something that can automatically add those getters and setters to your objects. I feel like that would be great. Not having to manually type them. But like, I mean, yeah, we write a lot of our internal packages and APIs that we build for stuff is all classes with getters and setters. And it's a really great pattern. And I hope that the learning curve will be maybe a little easier with Svelte because you don't need to understand all that different sort of magic. It's just, this is how runes work and they will work the same across everything. Especially getting rid of that export let for props, I find is going to be really killing. Two of my favorite things, for sure. Yeah, that's... Why though? Export let a name, and that's apparently a prop. It is kind of weird, in a sense. Yeah, it's definitely weird. I don't know it unless someone told you what it means, right? Yeah, I guess I've just been doing this too long. Export let to me seems logical, but it's true. It is weird. It's definitely weird. I kind of had the same initial reaction towards runes as well.

 but I quickly came around. I'm just worried that, well, so I'm always worried that we'll lose a lot of the beginner friendliness, but I don't think that's the case here. I think it could be. It could be the case, but ultimately we want to have something that's acceptable as well. I might push my fight to the resistance to getting rid of the dollar colon, for example, because we plan to remove it in a future release. maybe we defer that a bit just because I feel that that's kind of part of the the joy of being building something quick is just going in and going that's reactive done so I don't know yeah no I there'll be resistance for that just having of duplicative code and you know resistance and the size of the library and stuff but yeah you know well I don't think it's going to go away in svelte 5 right no not unless you bobbed into the ruins no maybe not six maybe not seven like it but at some point i think you know eventually we we don't let's have two ways to do something and i think that that's the bit where i go we we have lost a little bit of something here because that's kind of the joy of being able to build things super quick and not understand too much i feel like i i think that i've been thinking about this for a while but maybe maybe it's the fact that TypeScript is growing so much that is part of making people want to change things so it works with TypeScript. Does that make sense? Like if unless like if you're just writing JavaScript and you're writing Svelte, there's no issue with writing. Well, other than like the fact that things can get pretty hairy if you have a lot of reactive statements, stuff like that. But there's no issue with like typing, right? Because there are no types in JavaScript. So I feel like it might be the case that TypeScript has kind of pushed Svelte towards being more TypeScript compatible. And that is the reason why you get rid of dollar colon, for example, because you can't type that, right? I don't know. I'm just speculating. TypeScript is growing, right? So it is probably good that Svelte is moving in that direction regardless. But yeah, let's move on to the best section of the show, as I always say, but it not of course It just the unpopular opinions Here a quick word from our sponsor Welcome to the new era of content management with Contentful Say goodbye to the limitations of traditional content systems and hello to a world where collaboration sparks innovation. With Contentful, you're not just managing content, you're creating content-first, multi-brand experiences across all channels effortlessly. The best part? It requires zero coding. empower your teams to collaborate and innovate, delivering impactful digital experiences at scale. Contentful's AI-driven platform not only streamlines content creation, but also ensures it aligns perfectly with your brand. Ready for a game changer? Start with Contentful for free today. Unleash the potential of your digital content and drive your business forward. Learn more at contentful.com. Who wants to go first? I'll go first. So my unpopular opinion this time is that Mac OS X isn't particularly good. And it's... I saw your tweet thing. Well, to the kids, or his name is. Yeah. Well, yeah. So every time I hear someone say how great Mac OS X is, every single time they're referring to the great tools you can buy and install on it. And I'm like, well, that isn't a feature of OS X. that's actually a gap a functionality gap in OSX that you're filling with a good tool because it doesn't exist natively in the OS that's not like that doesn't make OSX good it makes OSX bad if anything and so yeah I don't get it I have built into GNOME and Linux everything that I need and sure I can add extra tools if I need to but I don't really have any I don't use any third party things other than a browser and VS code and stuff like that and I don't even need to install Homebrew, which is an absolute joke of the system. Like all of the stuff is just rubbish. It's just like third grade, third grade, third rate, third rate equivalents of tools I already have built in or a massive void where something should be like window management or screen recording or what else. I don't understand what that was called. yump tool like I don't know what it's called whatever the tool is he's talking about where you drag and drop things I can drag and drop like just by dragging and dropping it right there I read the homepage I like what does this tool do What is it for But what I tell you is that trying to copy files to drag and drop and move on OSX is infuriating. It constantly unclicks them all and then they're not selected. I'm like, how is it this bad? I can't just grab some stuff and copy it. And no amount of key combos helps, right? And there's no filtering. Just don't move stuff. Exactly, right? It's easy. And there's no tabs. And the layout's disorganized. And it's just on and on and on. So actually, on my OS, I just opened Nautilus, and ta-da, it all works. I've got some tabs, drag and drop here, copy that. Filter by file name, search, mass rename, it's all there. Why do I need a tool? Why am I paying someone to do that for me when it's free? So yeah, that's my opinion anyway. All right, Jacob. Well, I do agree, actually. I'm a decade macOS user. and Anthony, I've essentially riced my Mac OS to be like Linux. I have like i3 style window management keyword shortcuts. The only reason I like it is because of the ecosystem. I get my phone notifications on my, you know, all of that stuff just works, but I agree. Everything else about Mac OS is frustrating. Yeah, I need a screen recording app. I have to have Raycast to have real window management. Even the ways that the settings in Mac can You know, you're so limited in your customization that I have to like hack so much stuff. Yeah, I agree. My unpopular opinion is that, well, it's actually twofold. One is you should never use a Git UI, including the VS Code built in version control tab, throw that in the garbage. And it's because Git, and this is my other unpopular opinion, Git is really poorly designed software. It's really complicated and it's really hard for people to learn. And I find if you're a beginner and all you use is VS Code, the second you're on a team where anyone's doing anything weird or complicated with Git, you will be completely lost in the weeds. Because that was my experience when I joined Styletics. I was using VS Code at the time, just using the version control tab. I hadn't really ever worked on a team using Git. And so the second someone was like, oh, you need to cherry pick this commit. I was like, what is that? What's the ref log? Like the second you get into anything complicated. Hard force reset to the head. Yeah exactly And like so you need to take the time to learn Git deeply on the command line Once you learn that use whatever Git UI you want If it helps you and you like it, do it. But you need to understand those complicated parts because if you don't, you'll shoot yourself in the... I've done so much weird, improper stuff to our Git history because I just didn't know what I was doing. There's a course on YouTube, FreeCodeCamp. I think the founder of Git Tower does advanced Git for professionals, and it's a great course to learn Git. And so, yeah, don't use your Git UI, throw it away. Definitely, definitely. I'll definitely check that out. My unpopular opinion is something I posted earlier today on Twitter. You shouldn't use fetch on the client. And what that means is that you should do your data fetching on the server, basically, and just get it with whatever JavaScript you're shipping anyway. So basically server-side rendering. Obviously, it doesn't work if you're doing widgets or SPAs. Because if you were to do an inline update to something, like a, say, a SvelteKit form, it's using fetch for you. Yep. Oh, of course. But if you design it in the correct way, you should be able to not have JavaScript turned off. Right. Oh, yeah. So you have a full bug, yeah. Yeah, yeah. It's fine to use fetch, but it shouldn't be like, oh, here's the component. Now I need my data. I'll use fetch in the web browser, and then I'll fill it in. Yeah, yeah, that would be bad. That's the point I'm trying to make. Yeah, that's it. All right, picks. I'll go first. I am going to pick Satori because I've been building the dynamic OG image stuff. Basically a really nice library that Vercel released that helps you, well, yeah, build dynamic OG images for meta tags. Nice. Very relevant now that Twitter has removed the headlines and descriptions from the embeds. Or sorry, X. X. All right, Jacob, what's your pick? My pick is a book. I've been reading Staff Engineer by Will Larson. It's a pretty renowned book. It's very, very, very good. If you're an engineer working on a team, I highly recommend it. It's been a really great read. He's really casual in his research.

 writing, but he's also very clear. So it doesn't feel too academic or formal. And so all of the things he's writing about and the interviews he does with people on what does it mean to be a staff engineer and contribute at such a high level, I've been really enjoying it. Cool. Great. My pick is BunnyCDN, bunny.net. For multiple reasons, I guess the first one is google fonts if you use google fonts it actually violates gdpr by default because they do tracking when you download a font from there if you just replace oh nice yeah if you replace fonts.google.com in the url with bunny.net i think it is or fonts.bunny.net you will it will work it's just like a drop in replacement but it's not it's gdpr compliant and the other reason is because it is a fully fledged cdn service that has all sorts of cool stuff like pull from origins so you can proxy things i'm proxying node.js site because it's so reliable right now for our ci builds it's a lot faster from my buddy cdn i've moved all our static asset handling there because it's so cheap to to host this stuff same sort of thing as the cell regional blah blah blah but it's just a lot a lot sort of nicer to to set up i'm hosting all our static wordpress sites on there because there's simply static plugin pushes directly to bunny you can put you know your own file systems on there and stuff and you can do functions. It's got built-in AI, so you can do image generation. It's got built-in imagery sizing, so you can do all the fancy imagery sizing stuff you want to do. It full of features and it works really well So yeah definitely my pick An alternative to Cloudflare Exactly like a much more user alternative to Cloudflare Probably a less bundled alternative to Vasell because it just focuses really on the CDN part. Yeah, it's great. Yeah, well, that makes sense. Cool, that's our show today. Jacob, thanks for joining us. Where can people find you? Follow me on Twitter at storedall.dev. the dot is spelled out. That's also my blog if you want to read. I've published some more technical articles recently exploring Google Cloud functions with testing them with vTest and what else? TypeScript decorators, using decorators to simplify error handling was a pattern I developed at work and wrote a blog post about. If you want to learn stuff, read my blogs or follow me on Twitter. I'm sure me and Anthony will be riling up the car, the motorists some more. doing some other kinds of shit posting. Yeah. Yeah. Hopefully we can have you back on if you, or when you start building this meta framework thing. We'll see. Yeah. And if you're interested in that, ping me on Twitter. Let me know. Because I feel like it's just me that wants it and I have no gumption to actually do it. Yeah. So yeah, if you're interested, let me know. You need some external pressure. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. All right. And with that said, thank you all for listening and we will talk to you next week. hey it's cover if you like the show please drop a review on your favorite podcast player it would help out a lot thanks