 Hello, everyone. Welcome to another episode of Svelte Radio. Today we have yet another guest. Surprise. We always have guests these days. But first, some introductions. So I'm Kevin. I run a site called Svelte School, and I'm heavily involved in Svelte Society and help out a lot around the Svelte community. I'm Sean. I am still in the process of switching jobs, but hopefully building a Svelte app in production for my next startup. And I mostly should post on Twitter for Svelte Society. We also did just launch the CFP for the Svelte Summit conference that is going to be happening in April, I think. And I'm very excited about organizing speakers for that. I'm Anthony. I'm the CTO of Bianc, which is a booking system for tourism leisure. um i'm also a svelte maintainer alongside our guest today who is simon holthauser and simon is the i'm gonna what can i say is he's the he's the person in charge of language tools he's he's the code hero behind that it's absolutely on fire at the moment um i would probably say it's one of the most uh active sort of segments of the svelte organization So all credit to him and the community, of course. So Simon, I'll let you continue with the introduction. Yeah, thank you for the warm words. Yeah, I'm Simon. I work as a software engineer at a company called Axo. We do software development and consulting. And yeah, I don't know, more by accident than anything, I stumbled into the Svelte world, got really hyped, and helped out getting the language tools, the VS Code extension forward. And yeah, now I'm a Svelte maintainer like Anthony. And yeah, really, thanks for having me. Yeah, exciting. So you're also known on the Svelte Discord as DoomDeedoom, right? Yeah, right. It's my handle, yeah. Yeah. So where does that come from? It's just a random thing? My original nickname back in the days when I was in puberty was Hitman Faker. I thought that was a very cool name at that time. And well after puberty was over I thought no that doesn work very well So I thought okay I need a new nickname And I was humming along like what kind of pig And then I thought, oh, why not take this dum-di-dum? Yeah. And so it was just like, yeah, it's called Lautsprache in German. Wow. Sounds interesting in German. What's Lautsprache? The word for writing something down that sounds exactly like you... Onomatopoeia? Onomatopoeia? I don't know. I was going to say, it's more like... There's another word for it, isn't there? When a word sounds like the thing that it describes. Is that onomatopoeia? This is about my favorite. All right. So TypeScript, what's, or sorry, language tools, what's going on there? TypeScript is a big part of language tools. That's definitely right. So yeah, I was here on the show about, I don't know, almost a year ago. And I skipped through some of the issues that we closed since then or we got since then. And yeah, so what changed between then and now? So overall, we just worked hard to get rid of all the edge cases that people might occur when they're just coding. And I think especially all these edge cases, when you're in the zone and you're coding and then your intelligence does something stupid that can really put you off. And we are trying really hard to minimize that. New things are about, we also added a lot of new things, like we now have auto-completion for events. So if you define an event by create event dispatcher from another component, you get auto-completion for that in the component that uses the components. You can get comments for the props and events. So you hover over it, you see the docs. There are some new refactoring commands like extract into function, which works similar to the JavaScript or TypeScript one Cool We got a simple extract into component refactoring So you can select a part of a component in the markdown which you want to extract into a new function, and you just can right-click, and then there should be a extract component, self-component command in the context menu. And then you can decide what's the name of the component and then it will transfer that html into the the other component and write the import for you so just just for somebody who let's pretend i'm completely uneducated in typescript not because i am no i definitely am um imagine if you're also completing events um and you've got like a series of events like click and you've got things like um key up and key down are you maintaining a huge list of events that match the Svelte API? Or are you using, say, the type definitions within Svelte to generate those autocompletions? How does that work? It works. Actually, it kind of is like that. So there are two parts to that. One is that we use the HTML language service that VS Code uses for its HTML intelligence too. And that one defines a lot of those events. So if you do auto-completion, you'll get that from that. But we also have to define and keep track of a really big list of all these events inside a type definition file so that we can show errors like, okay, you're using an event that doesn't exist. So for that, we have to keep an ever-growing list of events. So you have this duplicate list that matches Svelte, right? Yes, we do. So is there a way to maybe use that? If that list existed within Svelte itself, is there a way to use that list from there? Or is that not a thing that's possible? So if there was, I don't know, some kind of JSON definition, we could definitely look into generating something out of that. Yeah, that would be possible. That would be an interesting PR because I've seen the code that adds those events to elements inside Svelte. And it's kind of like a big if statement, really. I'm guessing it's done that way for efficiency in terms of execution speed. But what I might say is that maybe if we put that into a JSON file and had it as a reference we could look up maybe that would work better for people save some of that manual overhead yeah definitely there are also some other parts like all the warnings that the Svelte compiler can put out they are not in one place right now and you cannot silence all of them So like the accessibility warnings, you can turn off with the suvelte ignore comment, but that doesn't work for all elements. And I think we could look into to get it to work for more elements or maybe all of the old warnings. I think there's an open issue that's kind of being completed over time, which is to move all the errors and warnings into a single place. So I think that might help with that. And I think in terms of silencing the accessibility errors, I know there's two ways that those are fired. I can't remember the reason behind it, but there's basically some of them belong to Svelte and can be silenced by Rollup, and some of them don't belong to Svelte and can't be. And I can't remember the exact nature of that. I think maybe some of them come from Acorn, or they come from some other internal project that we don't have the same level of control over. But yeah, definitely, I think things will move in the right direction to make that maintenance task easier, which would be quite nice. Definitely. I have a bit of a confession, which is I have never used the refactoring commands in VS Code or TypeScript. This stuff with the whole refactor out into a component, or what was the other one that you said? Extract into function something. You select some count block and you say, okay, extract that into a function that works in TypeScript, JavaScript, and now it also works in Svelte files. Yeah, and it's something that I think the React world and Vue also have. It's just that I've never used it. Am I supposed to be right-clicking things all the time? Because I just copy and paste. I feel like there's productivity tips that other people use that I don't know about or I don't use. I guess the question is, how often do people use it? How often do you use it? I honestly, I use it all the time. I do so many extract into function, extract into constant,

 all over the place. I don't know. I couldn't live without these refactorings today. I don't know. So much nicer. The same with formatting. Ever since I started using Prettier, I'm no longer able to format my code by hand. I'm unable to. Yeah, I have a love-hate relationship with Prettier, mostly because I'm stupid and can't configure it correctly probably, but that's another discussion. Yeah, it's a weird one because I think that I used to use type languages a lot, and I really do miss the kind of extracting functions and stuff. And I've sort of resorted doing it manually now because I don't use TypeScript that much. I use JavaScript. But it would be really convenient to start using this again. So I don't know. The list of reasons maybe I should switch to TypeScript just keeps growing, doesn't it? Yeah. Well, these things you can use in JavaScript too, I think. So these extract into constant functions, you could use those too in JavaScript. But there are some you can't use, right? Because they need a bit more definition. Yeah, so there's been a lot of... Talking about moving between TypeScript and JavaScript, there's been a lot of discussion about how in SvelteKit you're using just the JS doc version of TypeScript. Is that true? Right now, yes. I mean, yeah. I mean, what are your feelings on that, Simon? And is that something that more people should explore? So I think I'm on the other side of the spectrum. I really like TypeScript and I'd like to use it everywhere. And Rich just has a very different opinion on that. So he went with the JS doc approach, which is perfectly fine for me as long as I – I don't know. So I didn't work myself yet that much with the SvelteKit code. So I cannot say, okay, this worked just as well as it worked with TypeScript. So I cannot speak from experience for that. But I think some parts of it will just feel more tedious to me than they would do with TypeScript, especially around those things like, okay, you have to now define your types inside JS doc. And I just more used to typing the types right after a yeah inline And I think that for me at least I mean it all coming down to habit and what you used to, but for me, it just reads better. And I think some things like generics, you cannot describe in a good way with JS doc or maybe that changed. I don't know. I think we had this, you know, it was originally in TypeScript, the whole thing. And then Rich one day decided that TypeScript was kind of becoming, you know, it was problematic for him as he was changing things quite a lot. And he decided to remove it while he sort of, you know, he offered up the notion that he'd remove it. And then there was a big discussion that lasted days about, you know, yes and no. And, you know, there was like half people in the camp, half the maintainers in the camp of no and half of them in yes. and then lots of umming and ahhing, lots of work to kind of try and make it workable. But then, you know, in the end, we're like, well, let's remove it for now and see how it goes without it, just whilst it's in this kind of state of massive flux. And then we'll re-add it later on. And I remember I mentioned to somebody on Twitter that we're going to re-add it. It's not a permanent state. And then Rich popped up saying, well, actually, and now he's talking about, you know, making it all as projects at work, just use the JS doc stuff or the TS doc stuff, whatever it is. So, I mean, yeah, I don't know. I'm not getting involved because, I mean, I don't have enough education in TypeScript to really know how it feels to write a whole project in TypeScript. But I will leave that to just sort of work itself out organically. I think it'll be interesting to see the result of that. Let the other people fight. Yeah. All right. So before we go on, I'm going to read a couple of sponsors bots, which aren't really sponsors bots, but you'll hear it. All right. So first up, you can now support Svelte Radio directly. And by doing so, you'll get access to video versions of the podcast or you'll be able to listen a couple of days early to the episodes. So if that's interesting, you can head over to svelteradio.com slash support. And yeah, the support is much appreciated. And then if that's not something you're interested in doing, You can always leave a five-star review on iTunes or whatever podcast platform you're listening to. Also helps out a lot And yeah that it Woohoo Woohoo indeed Cool All right so what other things are new in the language tool side You sent us a list here a couple of days before about some things, and there's one thing called Svelte Component Typed. So what's that? Yeah, so that's a new addition to Svelte core. There were quite some requests about, okay, how do I, now I can use TypeScript inside my Svelte components, but then I'll have to transpile it to JavaScript to provide it to others as a library. But how do I write type definitions for that? So I need some type definition file and I need to write down the types in there. And how can I make it so that the language tools will understand those types and will tell the user, hey, this prop does not exist or this event does not exist. And so SvelteComponentType does exactly that. It helps you writing type definitions. So you just do, okay, export class, then your component name extends SvelteComponentType. component type. And then there are three generic parameters, props, events, and slots. And you can type them all so you can say, okay, it has these props with these types and these events with these types and same for slots. And that really should help library authors to write type definitions more easily. Nice. It sounds like a big addition compared to before. Yeah, definitely. I have a question, which is like, where is this documented? Because I feel like people should want to look at code examples. Yeah, documentation is a big ongoing issue. We also talked internally about this quite a lot already. It's kind of all dependent on each other. So we definitely want to redo the docs and also enhance the docs because there's quite a bit to know about TypeScript specifics by now. And, yeah, we definitely have to put them on the official side. And so that yeah definitely missing There are docs inside the language tools but I mean they are not directly explorable from the official site So yeah, that's definitely still missing. Docs are, yeah. Well, if you listen to Spark Radio, then you don't need the docs. Yeah, right. Spark Radio is the docs. Right, so listen to the docs. Maybe that's the next big thing. Like audio documentation. Actually, there's some people in the AWS ecosystem that actually do dramatic readings of their docs. You just live stream and then there's some calming music in the background and then you just read from beginning to end. Actually, you learn quite a few things. I really like that idea. That's a really good idea. Dramatic readings of anything is great, but documentation is just even better. That's how I'm going to learn times with. Yeah. Speaking of dramatic readings, Yeah, so I've been reading these fantasy books. I think I picked one of them a couple of episodes back, maybe 10 episodes. Yeah, Brandon Sanderson. Yeah, yeah, exactly. They're so good. It's so much better than a regular audiobook. Cannot recommend it enough. Sorry, a bit of a tangent there. No, it's good. I like to hear that people are still enjoying stuff they depict. It's like a double pick. Yeah, definitely. All right. So this thing about documentation, maybe that's also something that's missing a bit in general in Svelte. And I think we say this quite a lot, and it's like general examples or videos by people doing different things. Lee Howe has been doing great with the store stuff lately. Those are awesome. But maybe it should be a priority to get something out on how to do a proper library with TypeScript and everything set up somehow. I know there's the Svelte template repo, I think. Component template. Yeah, exactly. I haven't touched that in ages, but I assume that can be improved some bit. Maybe it already has TypeScript out of the box and I'm just not aware of that. There are some open PRs to get something automated so you can compile to JS from TS. But I don't know if they have landed yet.

 because there were some concerns about usage and just in general documentation, how to use it, edge cases when it doesn't work. There are only so things one can do at a time. Oh, yeah, yeah, definitely. I'm not saying you should do it. I'm just saying someone should do it. It would be nice if it was there. It's issue 29 on the component template repo where people are discussing some of the details with publishing these things. It is pretty complicated sometimes, especially if you need to take into account SSR. I always end up scrapping my TypeScript plans because I always have trouble setting it up correctly, getting it to work properly with everything else. It's probably my main problem with it. That was also one of the main reasons why Rich threw it out of SvelteKit because there were just so many problems with setting it up correctly in the context of a monorepo. So getting rid of tooling is always... I mean, no tooling is better than... Or no build step is better than any build step. That was his main notion there, I think. Yeah, definitely. We actually... A couple of people created a SvelteKit incognito Discord server where we can discuss it without spamming the regular Discord with questions and stuff. Because we know that people don't really want to listen to SvelteKit stuff all the time, right? I like that. I like these people, whoever they are. Yeah. Yeah. It's really crazy to me how many people are jumping on it so early. It's really fascinating. New, shiny? Very exciting, though. Anything else about the Svelte component template we want to discuss? Probably not. There's also preprocessor support, right? Or sorry, source map support. Source map support. Yeah, that's another thing that landed recently. So Svelte has much better source map support now. And that means that if you now get an error and you using TypeScript for example you get the error pinpointed to the correct location in the Svelte code which wasn always the case previously And yeah, that was really a huge community effort. So I don't know, it was Dimitraj and Mila House. I think that those were their handles. they basically did all the work and so huge props to them for bringing that in. So like source maps and obfuscating code in production, that's something I've seen a lot of people. They're asking like, oh, why can I see my Svelte code in the browser on my site? And personally, I think it's a good thing that you can see it because then you can look at how someone else built something. But I feel like this thing that some people think that if you obfuscate the code, you can't figure it out. Like someone can copy it somehow, but that's obviously not the case, right? I'm curious about how does source maps, does that affect anything else? Like loading times and stuff like that in general? I don't know enough about it, but they're just loaded if you have an error, right? I think so. So once there's something where the source code location could be looked up, then I think the browsers will try to load it if it's there. So if you turn off source maps for your production builds and you don't deploy the source maps along with the generated code, you won't see the original code in the browser. Yeah, so I've actually had to wrestle with this for a previous project of mine. And there's the security angle and then there's the data angle. The data angle is pretty simple. The source map is not downloaded unless you have the browser dev tools open, which means you're a dev. So it doesn't make sense to send a source map for a regular user who is not going to use it. But having source maps in production is an open question. I think the majority consensus is in favor of it. But there are some people who have the security argument, right? Like if you can see my source code then you can figure out how my API works blah blah blah The argument against that is that if you relying on that amount of security by obscurity then you not being very secure at all Your API should be immune to that And you should not care if anything on your front end is seen by attackers because that's the easiest part to see. so the argument for putting source maps in production is that when you're developing and you see a bug in production you can actually open up your dev tools and actually see what's going on with that and there's a tool that I'm tracking which is replay.io which actually helps you record it's like Loom, I don't know if you guys have seen Loom or all these recording tools, bug reporting tools it records a video but it's also a custom browser that plays back the JavaScript code executed, including the source maps. So when you have source maps, you enable dev tools like that, that just record all the data passing through. You can pause and then check, is this what I expect it to be? And then continue, add comments. And I think it's all enabled by having source maps. So we need to, I guess, normalize shipping source maps in production. Sean, I'm interested just tangentially here. Tangentially. What do you say? Tangentially, yeah. Tangentially. I have no idea. This is not an English language podcast today. You're the English man. I know. I'm too tired. I'm just too tired to speak. I'll stop for you shit. No, it's fine. So what I was going to say is when you say you're tracking something, what does that mean to you? Because it's interesting. I see you track a lot of projects. So this comes from my background as a finance person. I have investment theses that I track, which is like, I think that this could be a huge thing in the future. And I better start collecting data points on this because it takes a while for something, especially things which are in early stages. When you're not really sure if it's worth your time. It's just worth looking out because it just means that I think that this could be big. That's all it is. And I have a mental register of like, you know, last month I saw this, this month I saw that. It could just not be a thing and I might just forget about it. But you have to choose what you track and what you ignore because there's too much to know everything about. But I think it a good idea to not just give up on tracking everything You should have some idea of like I think this could be huge because you can bet early on it I wonder if you had your own registry of things that you actively watching or if it's just mentally in your head, that's different, I suppose. I'm imagining a JavaScript, like a Node script that opens 50 browser tabs or something. I do actually watch repos. I think one of the underrated features of GitHub is that you can just snoop on notifications of activity going on in different repos. And yeah, I think it's a good way to track what's going on without being super involved. But if you see a bunch of activity, you know something's going on. GitHub's kind of missing a trick. And maybe Nat Friedman listens to our podcast. No, I don't think he does. But I wonder if the stars feature of GitHub can be a lot better. Because you tend to star stuff and that's it. You star everything. and I've starred hundreds of repositories over the years, but it's just a big list and I can't know what's in there, what I want to search for. If I could categorize that better, that would be great. A better way of sort of, like you say, tracking it, a way of seeing things. Well, everyone start the language tools repo. Yeah. I do that. I even start private repos of my coworkers. So I'll go on to my coworkers repo and it'll just be one star. But at least they see that I'm giving them props for working hard on something. It's nice. It's a nice surprise. You open your private repo and I'm like, ooh. I mean, it's so easy. Why not? I have a question about the component refactoring thing. I think there's a movement within Svelte. At least, I saw Dan Abramov from the React team constantly making digs at Svelte about how we only have a single file component. and I think there's always some discussion about multiple files in one component. I don't know how I feel about that and I was wondering if you had thoughts because it would be easier to refactor things into multiple components if you could just keep them in the same file. I personally don't like that. I don't know. I don't have an issue with many files and if each file has about, I don't know, 20 lines of code, I'm perfectly fine with that. Yeah, I think I have the same opinion that my IDE, or VS Code, makes it so easy to just manipulate a bunch of files at once. I can open them all on the same screen, I can play around with them.

 I would rather have that than pollute the Svelte API with a kind of template tag. The joy of Svelte is it detects in your components when you have a script tag and a style tag and everything else is HTML, and that's really nice. You don't need that React-style empty tag that you have or a wrapper component or a root component fragments. That's the one you have fragments. You don't need any of that complexity, mysteriousness, things that break CSS grid, for example, because you can't have a direct child of something to make the elements with inside something a grid. I ran into a problem like that once with those template tags. So I would much rather have it just as it is now simple and take the hit that, yeah, you can't put 100 components in a single file. Sure, it might make prototyping very, very slightly slower, but I think that Svelte itself makes prototyping faster. so therefore you know it's in my opinion at least it still seems that you're going to get a speed and ease benefit of prototyping and Svelte versus anything else yep cool now that you know about the extract component command you can just write your file and if it becomes big you can just extract that that's true I'm actually going to start using it today I didn't know it existed Simon, since you're the resident TypeScript expert, I was wondering if your thoughts on TypeScript's recent features in general. There's the template types. I don't know. They're very fancy. I really love the template types. It's a very, very interesting feature, the template types. Can you describe them for people who may not know what they are? Basically, Basically, you get a whole lot more dynamic with typing and you can describe how a type will be converted to another type, but not the values, but the keys of those types. So I don't know, for example, let's say you have an interface with prop A and you want to define another interface which has prop A change. And you don want to duplicate that So you just want to append change to every prop And you can do that now with these template literal types And it's a really interesting feature. I don't think that a lot of people would use it, but I think for library authors especially, it can be really liberating to use that because it opens up quite a lot of doors for more generic typing. And I also thought about how we could maybe use that in the language tools. I haven't thought too deeply about it, but there could be some benefit to using that for us as well. So is that coming in the 4.2 release? I think it's already available since 4.1. Yeah, it turns people have done really crazy things like implement a JSON parser within types or SQL it's crazy what you can do with that It basically turns the TypeScript type system into a full string parsing string generation thing whereas in the past TypeScript types would be pretty static you'd define them up front and that's about it that's all you can use or you'd have to use a generic and call them weird names like T. It kind of sounds like when you see these really cool CSS things that people do. They build complete games and just CSS. Yeah, they're really impressive. CSS culture. I saw a CSS one of the day, which is like a bunch of balls on a grid that go up and down like that, and it's very little CSS there. it's really impressive you can do so much in css now it's amazing you can you can it's kind of scary because it's you know one of those points where it starts to cross over into something that is a language in its own right you know and it is a language anyway but i mean it it becomes it blurs the lines between where javascript ends and css starts and and i don't know how i feel about that really i quite like the single thing for a single purpose style of things Yep. All right. So you also had a point about hopefully some incoming TS support for ESLint for the ESLint plugin Yeah right And by now it actually landed So ESLint plugin Svelte 3 now has TypeScript support What does that mean What does that mean? It means that with some slight adjustments to your ESLint config, you can now get ESLint checks in your Svelte files if you use TypeScript, which wasn't the case before. They were all wrong. And so before that, it only worked for JavaScript inside Svelte's files. And now it works for TypeScript files too, for TypeScript inside Svelte's files. Yeah, so that landed just about two days ago, I think, at the time of this recording. Yeah, that's nice. I guess it's a little rough around the edges. There may be some things that don't work as expected. someone already did a PR to fix some of those things and but yeah it's there and you can finally use it inside Svelte files so yeah I think that's what quite a lot of people I don't know in these issues some people were like oh I'm blocked from using Svelte until this TypeScript support lands in ESLint I cannot live without that and And yeah, so those people should be on block now. Yeah, that's great. It's kind of like those people that were blocked from using Svelte before TypeScript. Yeah, right. So any other cool things that's going on in the language tools sphere? So one big thing that we haven't solved yet is that if you are inside a Svelte file, You get all these nice IntelliSense features and you can refactor a prop and that prop will be renamed in the other Svelte files too, etc. Or you can rename a variable and it also will be renamed in TS files which use that. But that doesn't work once you're in a TypeScript or JavaScript file. So once you're in JavaScript or TypeScript in a file, then you'll just, yeah, VS Code or the others just don't know what's this Svelte file extension. They just cannot really deal with that So crossing the boundary of getting Svelte support in the context of JavaScript or TypeScript files that's something we haven't accomplished yet. But we've picked up work on that. So Pushkin has done some exploration on that lately. And yeah, so we're starting to explore that and hopefully we can show something in that regard soon. So what that would mean is that if you do a refactoring of, I don't know, you have a store in a JavaScript or TypeScript file and you want to rename that store. And with a plugin, which we will write for that, you then would get the rename working in Svelte files too. So those will be not only renamed in other JS or TS files, but it will also be renamed in the Svelte files. Or you can say, okay, I want to see all usages of that Svelte component that I have imported as a barrel export, for example, in my TypeScript file right here. And you can just say, okay, find all references inside the TypeScript file and we'll also show you the references inside Svelte files. All these things. So just crossing the boundaries, this is the thing. Work in progress. Work in progress, right. And the other thing is for TypeScript specifically, just getting better. So right now you cannot really define, you cannot define generics for props or events, something like that. So I don't know, you have a Svelte file and then you have a prop of a certain type, but you don't care about which type it is. And you have an event that will be of the same type than the prop, but you don't know in advance what type it is. And generics would be really good for that. and that hasn't happened yet. So support for that hasn't landed yet. And yeah, fleshing out the API is an ongoing progress too. And yeah, hopefully we'll get agreement on that someday and then that will be part of the...

 enhanced TypeScript support too. Nice. Very cool. So those are the two big work in progress things, I would say. So looking into the SvelteKit future, how do the language tools work together with SvelteKit in the future? Have you guys discussed anything? Will there be specific features in the VS Code plugin, for example, that makes things easier in SvelteKit or something like that? We haven't discussed about this on that level yet, but from a general perspective, it should work just as it does today with Svelte files. So you can use SvelteKit just like you can use any other Svelte-related project with a language tool. So there's no problem there. There may be some special tags that you can set, which we will add support for in the language tools. I don't know. Or maybe one could think about, okay, if someone is in a script context module and he's starting to type export const, and then we can maybe provide an autocompletion for the load interface, something like that. But yeah, those would be things we could add. But in general, it should just work out of the box. Just it works with regular spilt. Yep, that's great. All right, any other questions or thoughts about TypeScript? All right, so let's go to the next section of the show, which today is domain squatting. So a couple of weeks ago, I got this weird email from some company in Shanghai. So I think this was like a domain registrar in China that emailed me and asking if some random company that tried to register SvelteRadio.cn and SvelteRadio.com.cn and all these weird variations of the Svelte Radio domain name, asking if they were affiliated with me, Which I promptly replied and said no. I have no idea who this is So that fun And then I got another email which just said yeah we not going to care about what you say We're going to register them anyway. Do we have competition or do we have friends in China? I don't know. If you are the one listening to this, someone out there in the ether, maybe contact us and we can I don't know, talk Yeah, if you use Felt in China we definitely want to talk Exactly, yeah So that was a kind of funny thing that happened So next up we have the controversial opinions, right? Controversial opinions And I'll let Anthony go first because he's the one that started the segment I've been bit by this It's going to make your life fail. Yeah, me too. And people are getting bitten by it all the time. So people on Twitter complaining about it, they're losing hours, they're losing days of time, and it just shouldn't happen at all. And the reason I think that the Mac has the case insensitivity by default is because it's kind of a historical thing. I think the previous file system before their current one had that insensitivity. The new one supports case sensitivity. It's Unix-based. Of course, it works. But to retain compatibility and predictability, they've made it insensitive by default. And I know for a fact that Adobe Photoshop and another Adobe tool, they don't work if you have a case-sensitive file system. So you're actually encouraged to format insensitively, which is just infuriating to me. So for developers, that's obviously really super annoying. Definitely not an ideal situation to be in. And I just think that these tools should be forced to update and match to do their standard thing where they go, well this is the future and this is what's happening and that's that um and i'm surprised they haven't done it with the case insensitivity um and windows i mean windows is a lost cause anyway let's face it um but basically windows i don't even think and maybe you can format ntfs to become case sensitive i'm not sure but it's definitely not encouraged it's not even common i can't even imagine a system where that's the case because i don't think anything would work properly on it um but yeah so anyway my point is specifics are better case sensitivity is better they are different files it a different ascii code it a different byte you know it not at all the same file name even for a human If it reads the same it not the same file So they bad Okay. Love it. Yep. That was a nice rant. Lots of nice rants. I think at least in this between us four, you have a popular opinion right there. Not an unpopular one. It does sound like that. I wonder how the two Mac users, I wonder how they're formatted there. That's a good question. I just never rename my files, so I don't have to deal with it. Yeah. I actually, I did run into this issue not too long ago. I saw a file that was lowercase, and it just irritated me so much that I had to fix it. You had the same situation with the readme file. Someone made it lowercase and the other one was all uppercase and it caused so much confusion. Nightmare. Are you on Windows? Yes, I am, Simon. Maybe that's my own popular opinion that I like Windows. Now that you said all of this. That is so popular. So why should developers use Windows? Why should I? Honestly, I just haven't used Linux or Mac yet. I refuse to go into Mac land. I don't know. It's just the lock-in effect seems too big for me. And it's also twice the money for everything. Yeah, the performance with these M1 chips sounds promising. But apart from that, I don't know. I just haven't encountered any performance issues coding-wise now. I think that I guess it just has also gotten better over the years for Windows. And if you really want to use Linux, you can just use the Linux subsystem for Windows. So you can basically have a Linux inside your Windows and install Node and all your stuff in there and run it from there if you want to. I tried it out, but I don't know. It didn't give me the benefit. It just worked well enough for me on Windows So yeah Yeah it not the same The subsystem is obviously not the same And Windows is definitely better than it used to be I only really use Windows now when I'm installing on a laptop to sell or something like that or repairing someone else's computer. It's still, to me, it's a bit shonkidonk is what I'd call it. You called what? Shonkidonk. It's like an extension of the word shonky, which I don't know if it's a common word, but it means like a big fat cat. A bit sort of hobbled together. It feels like a sort of patchwork quilt of stuff over the years, piled up, especially when in comparison to Linux. And I think, like, you know, I can see it as somebody who should use Windows and Windows only, that it works reasonably well, right? It's sort of straightforward. But, you know, having moved over to Linux probably 14 years ago now, I think the UI in Windows is incongruent compared to the one in Linux. Like, everything looks the same in Linux. It's nice. It's consistent font sizing. It's consistent UI. You don't have these random tools by all your Wi-Fi card manufacturers that pop up and try and take over your Wi-Fi setting control. It's just like a patchwork. It's just like a patchwork. It's really bad experiences with this. I mean, for me, it's not. I definitely have. I don't know. Especially talking about Wi-Fi on Linux. The reasons for not going to Linux for me is the UI. So I don't know. it just looks so bad. I don't know. I mean, don't forget there are like, you know, probably five or six mainstream UIs for Linux. Yeah, that's true. I mean, it just could be complete ignorance on my side. And there are some beautiful Linux desktop UIs. If you haven't used it, it's fair. Like, you know, especially when, if you were to just start using it one day, you'd probably find it extremely infuriating. It took me eight months of forcing myself to use it before I started to love it, and then that one never goes back. It's definitely like a mindset change from Windows, I would say. I have a question. I have a follow-up question. Do you use Edge or Chrome? None of them. Because Simon's on Windows, right? For work, I use Chrome, but I really thought about switching to Edge just because it's Chromium-based now. But in private, I use Firefox. Oh, yeah. Very cool. The reason I ask is because I actually tweeted this a while ago, and it was pretty funny. This is the full-stack Microsoft challenge, because you're already using VS Code.

 You're using TypeScript. You're using GitHub. And then there's a bunch of others that you can use, like Bing, OneDrive, Microsoft ToDo, Microsoft OneNote, Azure, of course, Microsoft Edge. Your laptop could be Surface. Your phone could be Surface Duo. And then the big one is gaming. You can play Minecraft on Xbox. There you go. That is Full Start Linux. I mean, Full Start Windows, that really is. Full Start Microsoft. That's mental. Yeah? Yeah. I have to say, for example, I would have probably historically never used anything Microsoft-based, but VS Code's fantastic. It really is good. I used to use probably Atom, I think, before that, and I just moved to VS Code, and it's fantastic. So they're not the company they used to be, and they definitely do some good stuff. It's just that, for me, Windows isn't one of those things. All right. Other unpopular opinions? I've got a quick one, I guess. I've been learning Go recently from a new job. And I realized that other languages handle exceptions and errors differently than JavaScript. And I did not know that there was any other way to do this. Because my only prior exposure was Python and JavaScript. And they treat them the exact same way. But in Go, or let's say in Rust, you don't really throw unless you really, like, shit is hitting the fan and the program needs to end right now. whereas in JavaScript it's pretty normal to throw whatever error you want and you document that someone above should catch you you expect someone to catch you somewhere and the program is going to recover and continue from an error and so I realized this I was just exploring what's the difference between errors and exceptions I don't know if you guys have ever thought about it I have thought about it because in Java where I originally came from. There you go. It's two very different concepts, right? So an error, sorry, an exception is something quite normal. It's an exception to the flow of the program or the circumstance you're in. And you can even do exception-driven programming, which I used to do quite a lot where you just have... So Java has very good exception catching. It doesn't have like JavaScript where you have to inspect what kind of code it is or read some text out of the message. it has explicit types around what you throwing so you can make a catch date with multiple catches and just say this type do this this type do this so an error in java is the thing that if you throw an error in Java your programmer quits That the end right An error is critical Your system is broken and you always never use them Yeah. When you're programming regularly, you never really use them. You shouldn't use them, especially with web apps. But for an exception, an exception is quite a normal thing. And it literally means, the truest term, it's an exception to the flow you expect to be happening. Yeah. So it took me a long while to actually get there because I've never used Java. And then the other thing that was confusing was Go actually names them the opposite way around. So exceptions are errors, and then errors are panics. That's complex. So it really, really screwed me up. But anyway, the unpopular opinion is you should not use throw in JavaScript unless you can really, really avoid it. You should return an error, or you should return it in some sort of error object. I see Simon giving a thumbs up. Yeah, definitely. That is a hard wiring rework of my brain if I have to do that, to be honest. Because it's so normal to throw, but we should not be randomly throwing like that. It's an abuse of throw. I mean, there are concepts in, for example, functional programming with this either. So you either return the normal thing or you return something, the exception, so to speak. And then you are forced to handle that all the way up the chain. But I think that's also why it hasn't gotten so popular, because if you have to explicitly handle it every time, which is in general a good thing, I think many people are just lazy and say, okay, I'm just going to throw a try catch somewhere very up the chain and just deal with it there instead of having to pass around this either all the way up. But I think it would make for a much more robust code, more predictable code as well. I think if you're programming, yeah, I mean, if you're writing a language, like you said, if you make it too different to everything else that's out there, you split the camp into two types of people. There's those who will adopt it and change their programming habits, which should be few. There are people who will just ignore it completely because it's so different to what they used to. and then there'll be the fanatics who absolutely just love it the fact that there's everything differently but that again be a small camera Doesn this describe the Elm language quite well Quite possibly I not looked at Elm but quite possibly Elm and Haskell have either or maybe monads Yeah, but for me, the final realization was that anytime you throw within anything async, and the moment you call a promise and you forget to catch, that error just goes out the window. It's never handled. It doesn't exist. and I think once I actually got mad at JavaScript, I was like, wow, this is the reason we have shitty programs in JavaScript because we don't have really good discipline around error handling. Anyway, that's my unpopular opinion. You should stop using JavaScript. I don't have an unpopular opinion, so I'll hop right onto the picks. and my pick today is a YubiKey 5C Nano. That's a mouthful. It's like one of these security keys that you can plug into your computer so you use that instead of a two-factor authentication. I guess it is your two-factor authentication. See, there you go. I have mine plugged in all the time. it takes up no space at all. And instead of having to bring up my phone and get this Google Authenticator or whatever app you're using, you just touch the device and you're logged in, which is nice. What if you lose it? What happens? Yeah, that's a problem. I thought you had a good solution. Yeah, you screwed. No, but there are solutions to it. I just haven't really explored them. Some people cut out the tips of their thumb and then put their YubiKey there. So you just plug your thumb in. That's disgusting. Yeah, that's crazy. My friend actually did that when he was 16 or whatever when he first started to drive. He dug the palm of his hand out and stuck an RFID chip in there so he could unlock his car by waving at it. No. I mean, it's the future. It's the cyberpunk future, so I'm just going to prepare for this. All right. Any other picks, you guys? What would you... Yeah, my pick is... So I do enjoy rum quite a lot I think rum a wonderful drink I really like it Agreed And the only problem with rum of course is it full of alcohol And unless you're a pirate, you can't really sit around drinking it all day. However, I've recently discovered there's a whole explosion in the UK of spirits that don't have alcohol in them. So you can get loads of different gins, lots of white spirits. You can get sort of gins and vodkas that have, you know, they kind of have sort of plant-based stuff in them. and they flavor the drink a bit like alcohol, but they don't quite taste like alcohol. If you drink them neat, they taste absolutely vile. I found one recently called Clean R, which is basically a sort of alcohol-free rum. It's 1.2%. It's not alcohol-free, but it's 1.2%. That's so interesting. I read this in the docs, and I thought it was like some weird cleaning product. No, it's not. I mean, maybe it's a body-cleaning product. I don't know. but it's um yeah it's it's it's a rum a rum style or rum based or i don't know what they call it like a like a rum alternative i suppose and if you again if you drink it neat because you have to try it neat so it's like it just tastes like water which is very odd um it's like drinking a shot of water like that's very strange but when you mix it with coke it really does emulate that kind of rum and coke taste really really well it's so weird um and i think it's because it's actually mostly fragrance it's like it's like um it gives it that kind of smoky uh um tobacco-y uh kind of uh caramelly smell and that obviously part of your taste is smell and it works really well it's almost like drinking rum and coke it even almost has that kind of alcohol bite that you get um so i was quite impressed with it because a lot of these these new on the market um alcohol-free drinks are just terrible seed lip especially is absolutely vile it's disgusting even if you mix it with what they say you should mix it with it tastes like absolute rubbish so um i'm really happy with this clean co clean r um rum type spirit um which is just fantastic nice cool cool cool um i got a quick one if uh if simon is still picking one um so it is the princess bride home movie um which is i didn't i didn't know about this but during the pandemic Um, the, a lot of celebrities wanted to encourage people to stay home. So they actually recorded a sort of word for word, uh, performance of Princess Bride, but like on their personal cameras with no props, like, and it's very like crappy quality, but with all the stars that you might see, like, uh, Diego Luna and Jon Hamm, um, uh,

 I don't even know. It's like the most number of stars you've ever seen in a single movie. And they reenacted Princess Bride and it's pretty funny. It's a classic movie if you haven't seen it already. And I just really enjoyed it. It's one of the only good things that came out of Quibi, which is the very short-lived mobile network. Oh, right. The mobile TV network thing that Jeffrey Katzenberg very arrogantly raised $2 billion for and burned it to the ground in two years. $2 billion. $2 billion on a startup. That's amazing. It's pretty funny, his arrogance, but Quibi produced this thing and this thing is hilarious. That's the one good thing that came out of Quibi. I'm going to check it out. All right, last pick. Do you have something, Simon? Yeah, my pick is not a thing, but it's an event. It's Fasching. It's Fasching in German. It's roughly Carnival, which hasn happened this year of course because of COVID But I don know As a kid you just dress up You dress up as something else like a cowboy or something That's what I did back in the day. And it was always really fun. And I mean, over time, that excitement diminished a little. But it was always really fun to at least go to these parades where they had all these wagons, where they have sculpted, make fun of politicians or things. And all that hasn't happened yet. Not yet, but this year. And I don't know. you just know what you miss until you don't have it. So I really hope that by next year, this time, we could have Fasching again. And yeah, so this is my pick this day.