 Hey, before we get started with this episode with Brittany, I just wanted to let you all know that we have started a Patreon that you can join. You'll have exclusive access to new episodes up to a week before they're released to everyone else. And in the future, you might also get video episodes. All right. So here's the episode. welcome to svelte radio hey another week another show we're back it's svelte radio yay today we have a guest with us brittany and the regular hosts of course i'm kevin i run a site called Svelte School and I'm involved in Svelte Society and a bit about Svelte Summit as well. Are we still doing intros? I'm not sure. I guess we are this week. Okay. Sean, I do work on Svelte Society stuff as well. And we recently decided at work, for sure, for sure, that we are actually going to build out a project in SvelteKit. So I'm pretty excited about that because I had nothing to do with it. I just wanted to let the engineers make their own decision and be picked Svelte independently. That is exciting. I'm Anthony. I forgot what I do. Oh, no, I know. I'm the CTO of Bianc. That's why I am. Yes. And I'm also a Svelte maintainer as well when I get the chance. Oh, nice. I think intros are always nice to put out there for people. So I'm Brittany Postma. I work with Coding Cat Dev. I co-host the podcast Perfect.dev, and yeah, that's pretty much it. I'm just a freelance designer who likes to teach on the side. Nice. Welcome to SvartRadio. Thank you. So what's your background? Where are you coming from? So I have kind of an unconventional start to web development. Three years ago, I was a stay-at-home mom to three kids. I had three kids in three and a half years. And so they're very close together. They were very young. And I had an unfinished graphic design degree And I had worked in restaurants and a teller in a bank vault before I had kids So I really didn have anything that I was like super excited about And I was looking for things that I could do like while I was watching my kids, like just reading blog posts or things. And I stumbled along Free Code Camp and I started doing the web development certificate. So HTML and CSS. And it really like sparked a joy in me like doing that stuff. I loved, immediately loved doing it. I played with MySpace in the past and done some like, what was that BB code? But I had never really like gotten fully into it or realized that I could make this a job. And then once I saw that Free Code Camp stuff, I was like, this is it. I'm just going to dive in. So I did the web development certificate. And then everything I was reading was pointing me straight to React. They're like, do this framework. This is like the best, most popular framework out there. I'm like, okay. So I found a Udemy course on React from Zero to Mastery. Andre Nagoy put out this complete React developer, Zero to Mastery. And so I did that course, and I actually was the first one that completed it, which got me kind of recognized in that community. They have over 400,000 developers that are in the community, And I'm a star mentor there now because of that React course. And we built a Gatsby blog at the end of that. So I'm like, okay, I'm going to do my portfolio. I'm going to get my Gatsby blog going. I did that. And then I obviously listened to Syntax FM because if like everybody does in this industry, I feel like. And Scott was all in on Svelte from the beginning. And I'm like, this excites me. Like, I love the sound of this. So I'm like, let me look at it. And so I looked at the Svelte docs and they're so well laid out and it was so easy to learn. I didn't need a video tutorial. I didn't need to go find some other blog post to learn how to do it. I'm like, I'm going to redo my Gatsby blog I just did and put it into Sapper. So I did find like the Sapper docs and go down that rabbit hole and redid my Bdesign.dev portfolio in Sapper at the time. And I was also doing some advanced JavaScript courses because when I was doing the React stuff, I'm like this. I dove into it too fast. This doesn't make sense. I couldn't tell what was JavaScript and what was React. So I like I going to do some more like advanced JavaScript stuff see if I can really learn JavaScript And I was writing a bunch of notes And I like I need kind of a digital garden or a place for me to store my notes So I built another site called theconsollogs in Sapper as well And I was in love was felt from that point on. I'm like, this is the easiest thing to work with. It doesn't feel like I'm adding a layer on top of like React. I feel like I'm writing JavaScript. Essentially you are, but I felt like I was writing vanilla HTML and CSS was felt, which is just what I really like loved. It's just, it was incredible. So I did all of that. And that was probably about two years ago now. And I found Coding Cat through Discord. He was looking for a designer to redesign his site and he was moving it from WordPress to Next.js, which is still in React land, but we transferred that over to Next.js. And I told him, I will give you a discount on this design stuff if you let me just help you write the front end. I want to get into the code. So he gave me the deal and I started with him and then he's like, why don't you come on the podcast? So we do perfect.dev podcast and chill out. It's fun. Yeah. So that's kind of my background. Long, long story there. No, I like it. I picked up on when you said people think that React is JavaScript. That's what the React community would have you think, but it's not, is it? Yeah, it's React, but it's so hard to tell. There's such a fine line with like what is JavaScript and what is React. Especially when you're new and you're kind of like almost, nobody forced me into it by any means, but that kind of was the community seemed to be going that direction. So I'm like, well, that's where I'm going to go. No, I think there's a, you know, the sort of the notion is that React and JavaScript, or sorry, React is just JavaScript, but I just don't think it is. I don't buy the argument at all. I just, it's not. It's JSX, which is not, it doesn't run through a JavaScript compiler without third party things. It does not look as good as Svelte markup. I was just, I say this every single time I write a conditional in React, I'm like, I cannot read this. And so in spelt, you say, if this, do this, else this, do this. But in React, it looks like garbled, garbly gook. The worst part is when you add like when you have like five ternaries in one Well you probably shouldn do that But still You probably should write if statements in JSTX at that point Well, the thing is, I think there's an encouragement to use ternaries because it looks more like a template that way or like an element. But one ternary is fine, but people don't ever stop there. It's always, you know, three or four and they get bundled up. and one of my biggest problems with react is not so much react itself but the the users of react they're in you know they're sort of uh i can't remember the word but basically they're just straight into you know a million ternaries i never even use regular javascript more than one ternary at once because it becomes unreadable very quick yeah it does it's fine hard to find like where you're at and what you're doing i agree yeah and you can't really do it with their spelt you just have no choice you know you've got to put a hash in it write your little if-else statement and i mean but it's still even if it's an if-else statement it's still concise and it's still readable so i do i really like that and i it's spelt has just enough sugar syntax that makes it magical and yet easy to read and fun to write yeah we don't give you quite enough rope to hang yourself with. Yeah. And I think with SvelteKit, we're just moving in the right direction. All the momentum felt like it was going to Next.js and it still may a little bit, but I feel like I saw Sean posted a Twitter post maybe yesterday about how it seems like there's been a momentum shift with SvelteKit coming out and what made that drive. I'm actually interested to hear, I'm going to interview all of y'all for a minute what y'all think about that momentum shift and like where that's coming from i don't know that's why i asked yeah so um yeah i mean i noticed you know like obviously us at work picking svelts and then that's talking with random other people just as part of my normal uh investing stuff and uh yeah people are actually independently picking svelts for independent merits. And then obviously, Scott is rewriting his site from whatever he used to use to Svelte, Svelkit. And they were just talking about it nonstop in the Shop Talk Show slash Syntax FM episode that was yesterday. And I was just like, wow, this is like, I don't know. We started covering Svelte a year ago.

 with Svelte Society. And obviously Svelte has been around for a bit longer than that. Svelte 3 at least. And that's just sometimes these things change slowly and then they start changing a bit faster and you don't really see it until suddenly you're just like in the middle of it. Yeah. I think Scott had like a custom React app built and it was all client or server side before. I don't know how he was doing that, but it was all custom React. No, not at the time. I think when he rewrote it, it wasn't what it is now. It wasn't this hybrid framework. We should ask him tomorrow. We're doing a podcast with him tomorrow. Oh, nice. So if you have any questions for him. That'll be exciting to hear. I can't wait to see it. If he goes through with his full rewrite, I really want to see it. I'm excited for the new content he's putting out too. He said there's another Svelte tutorial coming out this month too. which is awesome. I have to listen to the shop talk episode. I didn't hear that one yet. I just heard the syntax one. Yeah, it was good. It was, I think Scott had to run away mid episode to buy a house or something. Oh yeah, he did. He bought a house. Really? Okay. Yeah. They, they actually put in an offer on a house and it like fell through the first one fell through. And so then it's like the housing market is just crazy here right now. So you have to do it like within a day. so he did they bought a house like a few weeks ago i think it's good for them yeah i'm pretty active in his discord if you're wondering like i do not know scott personally i just know from discord wait is you mean the cell discord or there's a separate discord um for the level up tutorials discord so he has a discord for his subscription tutorial service and just a member in that discord. Yeah. Communities in general, I feel like have really driven me. I, because of that first zero to mastery one and becoming a star mentor there, I realized that by mentoring other people, I was actually learning myself. And so I really dove into communities with the pandemic because we couldn't go out. So I'm like, okay, so I'm going to find these communities where I can communicate with people who like the technologies I like, who do the things that I'm doing every day. And I've actually – my freelance business exploded over the last year because I found clients through Discord communities. So there just a few that are like really good The Svelte Discord is really good obviously Level Up Tutorials Learn Build Teach from James Quick the Zero to Mastery community Party Corgi There's a lot of them that just have really done great. What was the name of those again? So I can write them down. So Learn Build Teach from James Quick. Yep. I guess I should mention Space Jelly from Colby Fayok. That's a cool name. Okay. Level Up Tutorials, obviously. Yep. Obviously. Party Corgi is Chris Biscardi and Jason Linksworth's in there. There's a few in there. And Zero to Mastery is Andre Nagois. But it is private. So you have to either own a Udemy course through him or be a part of the academy for that one. And, I mean, we have Coding Cat. We have a Discord as well. We're still growing. But, oh, that's something I guess I should mention is we do have new Next.js content. So he had a tutorial on Next.js 9 and he has got a Next.js 10, I think, and maybe Next.js 11 with the way it's going course in the works. And I am working on a Svelte course as well and a CSS responsive design workshop for Coding Cat. So excited about all that. I hope those Next.js courses are how to migrate to Svelte kit. I will be sure to take his Next.js part of his course and put it into my Svelte course and be like, so this is how we can take this and move this to SvelteKit and you will be happier. This is how you remove half of your code base. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. This is how you make your app smaller and faster. So what's codingcat.dev? Is it sort of like just courses? So it is what we say, perfect web tutorials is kind of the tagline for it. But it's more than tutorials. What we want from it is to be a community for people to go to for blog posts, tutorials in written and video format. So like full courses. We want there to be some kind of like forum where people can chat. And whether that's going to be on Discord or actually live on the site, yeah, it's probably going to move to Discord. But we're not sure on that yet. But it's just a full system for people just to have a community to go to to learn and kind of like the learn, build, teach community. But it like codingcat to learn your stuff to talk to your friends to ask questions to get help So anything that you need really that kind of our goal with it Yeah. That sounds great. Like I really resonate, resonate with the idea of that. You said a bit earlier that you kind of, when you mentor people, you learn a lot. I do. Yeah. Yeah. I feel like Like it definitely, that has to be true for the majority of people, I think. Yeah, there's a word I learned recently on the podcast, Prince Wilson came on and it's pedagogy. So the ability to teach like that skill set is kind of what that word means. And I find that by teaching others, you're really like teaching yourself, or at least for me. And I think a lot of people would probably be that way too. But if you just help somebody understand something, you're really like finding a way to explain it to yourself. So I think that really helps. I would like to understand some mechanics because I think when someone is so all in and involved, they don't necessarily understand what it's like on a day to day basis. So, you know, it seems like your time allocation breaks down to being an active member in communities. one uh two you're sort of mentoring people and as part of your your time giving back to the community and then three you're actually freelancing to my guests make money um what's the split like what are we talking here like you know is it 40 hours freelancing and then everything else is you know after hours or you know what are we talking here it is so hard to even like contemplate what i do day to day and my husband asked me this stuff too he's like so what are your goals and how do you break down this time? And I'm so bad at time management. So because I have three kids in the house and it's summer right now, so they're not in school. Naturally, you have three young kids. Naturally, it's a little different right now when they're in school. I mean, next year, they'll actually all three be in school. So I will have a full eight hour day to kind of work. But right now it's really whatever I have time to do when I have time to do it. I usually take a dedicated three hours every day to do some form of work. And every day that could be different I am working on a freelance course I working on the spelt course I working on side work So freelance work to make money like you said we do the podcast So depending on the day it looks very different And I used to write a lot So I used to be active on dev.to and write blog posts. And I actually had to cut that out because I don't necessarily enjoy writing. It helped me learn a lot when I was learning. But that was one of the things that I ended up having to drop because I just didn't have enough time in the day. So I do that dedicated three hours. And then after that, I will squeeze in like the community stuff I can do on my phone. So I'll like read through that while I'm doing other things. But it's whatever I can make time for. Yeah. Well, I think it sounds like you're pretty good at time management because I also, you also did Free Code Camp and the React course, you know, when, while you still had kids. So that's an achievement. A lot of moms and working moms come to me and they ask me about, do single parents or do working parents do this? And I don't really have that many examples to point them to. So it's one of those things. Yeah, definitely. I think Free Co-Camp was a great resource for that because I would sit down with my laptop in the playroom with the kids. And I would just run through those little tutorials. And they're almost like quizzes. So you just sit there and play with that while they're doing something. And that was maybe a couple hours a day. And it took me six months, I think, to finish that certificate. But and also with the Udemy courses, they're cheap and you can get through them in like a sitting. They're like 12 minutes long, usually for a video. So like you just watch it real quick. And then as long as you're doing something to make sure that you're actually learning it. So implementing it into the projects was kind of my problem going in. So it took me about a year to really like get started doing the projects. And that's when I really started learning. So what I'm hearing here is that you can multitask, which is something that I definitely can't do. So I think that's the main skill. I mean, I guess if your children are in a room where they can't hurt themselves, then yes, you can multitask. So just like a kind of padded floor, padded ceilings, kids can hurt themselves in anything. What about the laptop? that's surely dangerous you know i know you're holding it but i i was holding the laptop but i will say that this morning i sent the kids outside so i could get some stuff done inside my son threw a broom like a spear and hit my youngest daughter in her forehead yeah it's not always great

 And you think you can turn your head and you cannot. Oh, wow. Wow. They're fun. Now I'm scared of having kids. I scared you off. Would you want them to try coding at an early age? Actually, my oldest daughter, she is eight and a half right now. And she has done like the HTML section of Free Code Camp. I got her started on that. And so she has like started going through it and she loves it. And I've got her in Figma too. That's what I use for all my design stuff. And so she's doing like little emoji looking things in Figma and she loves it. Yeah. That's cool. And I think it's great. It's one of the things like that was surprising about the most recent Svelte Summit that people actually introducing this as part of their syllabus. I forget which government. Was it Norway? Norway, yeah. Yeah. They're teaching it to kids and it's more accessible that way. It is. It's really awesome. It's probably a good time to plug my friend's book here, actually. He wrote a book called Get Coding, and it was number one bestseller in the UK on Amazon for a while. I think he's released another one now, Get Coding 2, but it's designed exactly for this, like getting kids into coding at a very young age, as early as possible kind of thing, as soon as they can read pretty much. Guess good reviews. Awesome. Nice. They do some stuff at the school that my kids are at. So they have like a technology class once a week, and they learn typing, and then they're starting to do like little, I think it's like Sketch. They do Sketch Junior in that class. So it's like you build with blocks if nobody knows what Sketch is. This makes me think we need a kid's version of our tutorial, whereas maybe it's more like more graphics and with simpler language maybe. I'm going to take a note. This is like my next idea now that I can add to my list of projects. Svelte for kids. Yeah, I mean, isn't that how all these huge corporations think? They get all the kids interested. Like with Google, for example, and all the Chromebooks. They just flood the high schools with Chromebooks. So everyone will know how Chromebooks works. Oh, yeah. All of the kids at our school have a Chromebook. Especially last year with virtual school for part of it. They all had Chromebooks. And they all going to use Chromebooks when they graduate and go off to college Now can we make Windows development better in general so that they can use the Chromebooks for coding Yeah Well, actually, I mean, Chromebooks can run Linux now, right? So it should be good to go. Are they Linux? Yeah, they can. Well, Chromebooks are Linux, yeah, but they can also, they can run Linux natively now. They can have, like, you can run Linux apps on them. Oh, I didn't know that. I thought they were Windows. No, they're Linux. I run Windows, so I run into a lot of Windows issues. And I can just get a Linux-based system or something that works. WSL is not it. Yeah. Are you using Windows? I do. I use Windows primarily. I actually, for the first time, just sideloaded Ubuntu last week. And I like it, but nothing works. My Wi-Fi driver didn't work on my laptop. Oh, that's a classic one. My audio doesn't work. so like yeah i just i'm not a super big fan yet i don't know what i'm gonna do i mean yeah i have to say i use ubuntu i have done for like probably like 16 years now nearly more than 16 years i think but you what i tend to do is buy the right hardware and so when i get new pc i consider that i'm you know buying something that that supports bunty basically because a lot of these providers of video cards and wi-fi and stuff they they don't reveal how those are made to the to the driver to the manufacturers so no one can open source it reverse engineer and stuff so yeah you have to be a bit more selective with hardware but anything by intel generally works avoid broadcom yeah and that's what i saw everything i saw was broadcast but this was a real tech wi-fi driver and i could not get it to work so i i don't know i gave up and i just installed the insiders edition of windows and i'm running wso on the laptop and everything seems to work on my desktop except for the audio which is still i mean who needs audio the other fun thing you can yeah when you're like you do live content the other fun thing you could try is um mike nichols now works for git pod.io we did a podcast on it oh yes i love git pod i do run that actually oh cool okay because you can do that on my laptop um the only thing that i've found is you have to like npm install every time you go into an instance of it so it would just take me a while to get up and running i kind of wanted something that was just a lot faster to just swing to my laptop and be like here i can bring the same project and i i still don know what workflow i going to come up with but i feel like feel like they have a solution to that like a workspace this thing that you can use So that definitely possible But you have a chat to him on Twitter anyways, on Twitter, so you can get the first line support there. Yeah. And he's trying to talk the front end team into moving to SvelteKit, right? Yeah. I think they did move to SvelteKit already, actually. Just for the marketing website. Yeah, the marketing site. But he wants the actual application to be rebuilt in it, right? Yeah. Well, we know how it goes, right? I mean, he's converted one team. That team will then stole the virtues of Svelte and everyone will convert. I kind of want to ask you, Sean, how did they land on Svelte, your team? Oh, it was just on the table and we were open in terms of framework choice. and they were mostly looking in terms of the amount of features you get out of the box, the lower amount of code, I guess, that you have to write just to put everything together. And I think that what most made people comfortable was that actually it's not that different from React. You're still coding components and a lot of the knowledge is still portable if you know your fundamentals well. And yeah, I think we realized that we weren't actually taking that much from the React ecosystem anyway. And I think that's the point at which you start to value things like the inbuilt styling solutions, the inbuilt stake management, and the inbuilt animation stuff, right? For me, one of the key wow moments is the point where you switch a writable store into a motion store. It's the same exact API. You just change the way you import things. And that's it. And now it's animated. And I think that opens up the opportunity for more play. Because in React, it would be a total, like, pick from, like, five different libraries and, you know, try to install this thing. And it would just be, like, extra JavaScript burden. And most people would just not do it. It takes away a lot of the overhead. Yeah. Yeah. So if you open up the opportunity for play and progressive upgrade from like a simple MVP to like, all right, let's add some transitions, add some animations. It doesn seem like that big of a lift I think SvelteKit also really sold the team because the team had worked in Ember in the past And I had never worked in Ember but they were like yeah this reminds me of some stuff I familiar with So that one's on them. I don't know Ember at all. That's nice to hear. It's always cool to hear people switch to SvelteKit. I mean, I don't necessarily advocate people switch just for the sake of switching. It's an expensive choice. But at the same time, there are genuine development experience improvements. And that can help you to build great user experiences, which is what the end goal is, right? Yeah. Yeah. And it's a good mix of both. It's a great developer experience with a great user experience on the end. So it brings both of them together. I'll say the one thing I'm a little bit worried about is that we are in sort of the honeymoon phase with Feltz. we haven't run into the big disagreements or the big foot guns yet. So I'm going to tell the team about what I learned with the await syntax and how basically Anthony doesn't like the await syntax, even though it's a major part of Svelte, because a lot of the times you want to use your own state management for fetching data anyway. um so the the await syntax is like a nice thing to to uh put promises in um but at the same time you you often want more control than that for sure you don't have to put it in the markup there right you can put it up in the script tag yeah so you can use a regular await yeah and that's what i'd probably encourage people to use so you know since i since i actually said that on the podcast i have started using away a little bit um but only on really trivial things um it because it's like those um it's like those uh it's like react you know it gives you too much flexibility to do something with so if you start trying to do something complex with it i think you're probably into trouble because it's not flexible enough to give you the control control flow you need in order to do what you're trying to do with it but if you're doing something quite simple or noddy then it's absolutely fine. You can just build something really simple with it. Uh, it's convenient, but it's really should be considered only as a convenience in my mind, at least. Cool. Yeah. Um, well, I was, I was wondering if we want to talk a bit about like mentoring. So I tell people like there's a tendency when people are starting out to basically just like message you.

 say, can you be my mentor? And I tell people not to do that because basically it's kind of an unspecified job that you're unpaid, unspecified with no set timeline. I try to tell people to focus on projects. I'm just wondering what your general approach to mentoring is. What do people struggle with, including when it comes to Svelte? I think that is one of the things that is a struggle with a community of 400,000 people. The actual Discord community has, I think it's like close to 200,000 or just over 200,000 now. And it's hard. 224,787 students. I was going to check that is how many are in the Discord community. And being a star mentor, my name appears at the top. And so I will get multiple messages a day that are like, either, can you be my mentor? Can you be my programming buddy, just like hello randomly, or just people will try to call me, which is not great. I want to leave my DMs open for people to be able to access me. But some of that stuff is really like put offish. And so I really take the mentor in that community, especially as being, let me help you where and when I can. So if you have a question, put it in the right channel, And then I will, in my free time, which is very little lately, go in there and see if I can do something to help. Otherwise, mentoring can be if people need something specific that they know you have a niche skill set in and they need they have a specific question. I like that when they come to me and they're like, hey, I know you're really good at this. Can you help me to do this? So as long as like if you're going to ask people to mentor you, know, either a timeline, be willing to pay them or have like just a specific question that you know they're good at. So I will also get questions. Those courses for ZTM like range from like data and machine learning to like React on the front end. So like they're all over the board and I will get like, can you help me with this blockchain thing? or like and I just I don't know that so I'm like there's just be specific and make sure you know the person you're asking I guess when you ask for a mentor yeah that's good that's a good tip actually it's quite hard to really pick a mentor so there's useful tips yeah and the twitter community and discord communities for development in general are great and I have never had a bad experience and as a woman in tech I think that pretty strong to say because I know a lot of people that have So I've never had a bad experience. And I think that if you just put yourself out there a little bit and ask the right questions to the right people, then you'll find your answers or teach yourself to Google better. That's a big point. Yeah. Yeah, you kind of run into these. like some people have a tendency to just like they just blurt out anything they they want to know into like a public discord channel and it's like one google away from knowing the answer it just gets irritating that is frustrating for those of us that are are in the in the channels that see all the messages and stuff like that oh yeah definitely all right so do we have any any other questions or should we move on to unpopular opinions um well just like uh i guess uh svelte's wish list or uh things you're things you you wish that uh we could build out in svelte or that was better documented yeah for britney oh for me i'm sorry so i was just actually going to pull up the svelte repository because i do have an issue that was out there and i haven't checked on it in a little while i'm like i said i've run on windows so i did have a windows issue with the pathing and so as soon as that stuff like gets resolved i think i'm hoping that y'all are getting close to being out of beta and that's really the only thing that i can say is that i had like the windows the slashes were the wrong way ah okay so this is for spell kit not spell kit sorry not spelt itself i don't have any issues with spelt that i know of that i've ran into yet i've never used the await keyword in the market that's why i got no issues i think um yeah the pathing thing uh not i'm gonna think now there's probably like two maybe three now maintainers that use windows so those issues are probably slower to get picked up um because the community is a lot larger now than it was hopefully this will get fixed if not by us by someone else um i actually know that conjutri and ben mccann i think ben mccann flip-flops a bit but they both have or do use windows so they still spot them so that been tagged my uh my issue and when i checked the issues last there were only three and now there are 248 open so maybe we not as close as i thought yeah we ran they were all windows issues that was left and i was like oh we're getting close yeah that was spicy they're gone yeah i mean my personal solution is just don't use windows that's simple as that i guess it's not quite you know it's not the optimum solution i'm just i'm trying so hard to wait on getting a mac like i don't i don't want I get a Mac. I'm pushing. I'm like, not anti-Apple, but I just... Get a Linux. Get Ubuntu installed again and just change the Wi-Fi card. Done. Change the hardware? Yeah. Or some of it. Not all of it. Just some of it. Okay. It's weird. Like, we should... It's weird that we have to take care of these things, you know. I actually kind of blame it on Node. We need, like, a standard library that just works on, And, you know, someone would take care of that. And then we just use their interface to access file paths. Yeah, I think Node isn't really there with Windows, really. It hasn't been for a long time. You know, Node is all about Unix and POSIX kind of standards and compliance. I was wondering who I should blame for it because I never blamed SvelteKit. I was like, this isn't SvelteKit spot. So it's either Vite, Vite, Hauer. How do we say that? Can that be a hot take? It's Vite. so i said feet and then they said bite and i'm like no i can't so beat i thought it might be beat but are you saying it's node is that what's doing it under the hood like they could provide uh tool better tooling to help us um not make any issues like every single project that does that deals with the falsism ends up dealing with this stuff and it's super annoying because like yeah you could to resolve it in the runtime itself. I mean, to be fair, to be fair to Node, it does have, for example, path.join. It's just that people are very prone to not using path.join. I was using that. Yeah, so it will take the segments of file names and it will join together with the correct slash for your system, right? Which is great. The problem is, of course, SvelteKit is generally bundled when you deploy to production. So those have to become either that way or that way when it's deployed. New lines have to be the same. I think the other thing is people are just so prone to sticking some slashes and some words together or using concat or just a string concatenation, for example. So they don't use those libraries that are given by Node. It's not that Node is perfect by any means, but Node certainly now has the support for Windows that it didn't have in previous editions It just that whether authors use them or not and there always new nuances Windows has loads of bugs with the file system around file naming WSL doesn work properly by watching files If you put your file system on a Windows drive versus a Linux partition, there's a million and one issues. And it's like browsers as well, right? The OSs aren't consistent. The browsers aren't consistent. If we're all using different things, we're going to have to expect that it's down to the individual developers to actually make sure their platform complies to whatever standards are available. with windows that's not unfortunately windows is kind of right its own so i just found the issue and it says path.join on urls uses backslashes on windows i really yeah round circle node itself also can't do that yeah this is why we should yes we should all use that like the the new web assembly OS thing from Spark. Was it Spark Blitz or something? Stack Blitz. Oh, Stack Blitz, yeah. No, you mentioned this last time, and I told you it doesn't work with local files. It's only virtual files. Well, everything can be virtual. Everything in the cloud, yeah. All right. Unpopular opinions. Unpopular opinions. Who has one? Who's going first? I think Brittany signed up to be first. I agree. Yeah. So my unpopular opinion is I want to be done with React. I want to move away from Next.js and just write everything in SvelteKit. All my client projects. Oh, yeah. Do you get enough freelancing projects that actually want Svelte? I imagine you're doing a mix. Well, I work with Alex, my partner on Coding Cat Dev, on our projects right now. And so everything is Next.js. So it's probably going to be more dependent on him. But me personally, if I got a solo project, I would push SvelteKit like right out of the box. No doubt. That makes sense. Okay. Brittany's available for start-up. Yes, definitely. I always said if there is a job that I would take over just freelancing, it would have to be in Svelte. And it would have to be like front-end work with CSS and design and Svelte. And that's where I want to go. Oh, you know, this is something that we actually were concerned about, which is the ability to hire Svelte devs. The impression is that there are just a lot more reactives and the impression is that it's easier to hire reactives.

 I'm not so sure that's true because maybe there's just a lot of people who would like to work with Svelte. They just don't have the opportunity. Yeah. I think as well, like, I think we've said this before, but I think at least that you can definitely bring over a React developer to work in Svelte. Like, I don't think it's hard for them to do that. Yeah. It takes a day to learn the thing. I was like, you can learn all the syntax that you need in under an hour, probably. If you have those underlying JavaScript concepts, you don't need a lot of the svelty syntax. And it would not take you long to learn that. Sweet. So my unpopular opinion is that Chai, which is the popular assertion library for Node, is crap. And I'm putting it in those terms because I just really don't like it at all. I never have. And the reason being that it allows you to very easily make false positives. So it has this trait of not requiring a method call to be the last part of the assertion. So it's got this kind of word like assertion, expect blah to be a number, for example, or expect something or other to be false. And it's written like words. So if you, some of them have like a function calls and some of them are just statements. so if you accidentally don't call the function call on one of the statement on one of the function ones if you just use it as statement your test will pass because it will never throw an exception and for me for a test framework or test library to do that to allow you to make that two character mistake that's just so easy because you don't you can't always remember which assertions do and which assertions don't use brackets is is a massive fail it makes it inappropriate for use as a test library um so i really really hate it and i had a i had a developer once on my team who was i i like to use happy code right happy made a library called code um it does the same thing but it even says in the readme it it uses functions for everything because it guarantees consistency it guarantees your tests are not going to you know false positive without you knowing about it this developer denied all that said no no no way no chai is great you're just using it wrong you don't know what you're doing blah blah blah and we battled for ages and one day i was i was the team lead so i just said look i'm getting rid of the chai because we're not using two assertion libraries in here i'm just going to switch it over and it took me like five ten minutes because it's basically the same thing with brackets right um when i did that i found eight of his tests were false positives right so even this guy who was stalled saying i the idiot i can develop software i the idiot it my fault He did it He broke it right So it that just made me double down on my statement, my assertion that it's just a broken library. I just hate it. I despise it. So I have one follow-up question, which is typically when you write, you should write a failing test before you make it pass. Is it fine if you adopt that discipline? Is it about discipline more than it is about you know test that degrade in quality over time no well it is so so so it's not about discipline um it's it's all fine and well doing tdd and writing tests first and you definitely should that's the way to develop software right but when you refactor you don't have that you don't have that possibility so if you change the way something works uh a bunch of tests fail and you fix them you change the assertions and you just leave those uh those brackets off your new assertions you're screwed your tests are gonna oh they pass now that's fine it's because the assertion is never called so what's that i use happy code so it was just called code before but it's called happy slash code now so it's part of the happy family of stuff and it's literally designed to only be shy without the flakiness without the kind of random you know syntax that's great all right do you have opinions on like jest and uvu as well haven't used jest very much. It's not well-liked among the Svelte maintainers as far as I understand for a variety of reasons. Ubu's great. I would actually love to switch to that. There's one outstanding issue I want to see fixed first which is that the befores and afters if you throw in those your test will mysteriously just not run and you won't know why. There's no feedback. So once that's fixed I'll happily recommend that as the way forward. But for now I just use Mokka. Alright, cool. That's a great rant. Can I ask? Can I ask about the TypeScript hate? Because I do not love TypeScript. I hate the way it looks. And I know that a lot of the maintainers don't use TypeScript either. Oh, you were hiding your... That's an unpopular opinion. I have two, sorry. Yeah, we have a few that do use it and love it. We actually have one of the TypeScript core team as a maintainer as well. So we can't really, you know, totally be against it, right? And it's definitely got its uses. I think the notion is that it's, especially in front end, types are nice, but they do add a lot of, they slow you down a bit when you're trying to rapidly post type things. And so there not a huge favorability for it there But I think it kind of half and half now Some use it a bit some use it all the time some don use it at all I don use it at all That my problem with it is that rapidly prototyping So I do design and then I put it into the front end code. So I'm trying to throw together a React component and it's yelling at me about types. And I'm like, I don't know how to write TypeScript. I can't write these types. I'll just put colon any and stop yelling at me. yeah that that is that is a rant as well about tab script all right um okay uh do you have a do you have an unpopular opinion sean no i'm very i'm very uh mellow today yeah all right me too as usual i i never have unpopular opinions i have a i have a good pick though and it's uh it's it's about chai i love chai not the framework but the tea yeah i had a chai latte the the other day and it was amazing so i'm gonna pick that today oh nice i feel like you put that in just to trigger anthony and then he had to leave so yeah i love that transition i i was hoping i could do it while he was here but yeah yeah uh cool do i do i go i guess um I'll pick Superhuman, which is the email app that I use. It is a luxury, so it is not one of those things that you need. It's basically an email client for Gmail. And why would you pay $30 a month for extra email? And that's purely because it introduces a lot of keyboard shortcuts that help you manage your email better. I tried it out a while ago, and now I've hit 26 straight weeks of Inbox Zero. and I think that's just like a it's a nominal thing you can get to inbox zero by cheating a lot but it definitely helps me feel more in control of my email for the first time in a long time and anything that makes me want to read my email instead of want to avoid my email I think that's worth paying for and I recommend it if you want to get off the wait list because there is a pretty long wait list just email me you know, and suix.suix.io, it's on my site. And I can refer you, but generally I think it's great. And I actually switch myself from like the monthly plan to the annual plan which seems like a step up but actually you get like a two free discount So I guess I in this for the long run just because it such an ingrained thing part of my workflow. I think you have to just get better email as you go more into, I guess, company leadership or whatever you call it. And you just get more email that you just cannot ignore. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Like if you're just a developer, it's probably way easier to just like ignore stuff that aren't really relevant to you, right? Select all, delete. Well, especially if you deal with like external customers and then if you're doing a lot of like investing with like startups or if you're doing talks with conferences, these are like, you know, email is the ultimate bridge between all of them. So definitely making sure like I feel like it's like my big boy pants moments. Like, you know, kind of I'm like getting serious about email and actually getting excited about email tools. Yeah. That's my life right now. Yeah. All right. So I'll go ahead with my pick. I actually thought of another one while we were sitting here, too. So I'll go ahead and do the one that I had. It's called Black Monday. It's a show on Showtime about the second largest stock market crash other than the Great Depression that happened in the 80s. And it's a really cool show. It's kind of like just all that Wall Street, like business stuff. But then there's a lot of drama and side stories that I don't know. It's been pretty interesting. We binged the first season over the weekend. So it's pretty good. And my second pick that I just came. Oh, sorry. You want to ask something? Yeah, yeah. I was going to ask, how does it compare to that movie about the latest one? The Wolf of Wall Street? No, The Big Short, I think it's called. Oh, I don't know if I've seen that one. I can't compare it. If you like the Black Monday show, I'm just assuming here that they're kind of in the same genre. You should definitely watch The Big Short. Definitely. I'll check that out. My question is, how can there be more than one season? Because it happened. I wonder the same thing and then I'm like oh wait it's gonna keep going and so it just kind of keeps going with their stories and I don't want to give any of the show away but like it's good it just kind of picks up from Black Monday for me it's kind of like prison break because they break out of the prison in season one they're done

 with the prison break and then they have four more seasons to go. And you name the show after what happens in season one. It's the same thing. Wasn't that like the season five? They broke into prison to break out again? Yeah, exactly. They do that for three more seasons. It's just really funny because the writers are clearly like, okay, we have this title. What would they do with this? What else do we call it? Yeah. All right. Sorry, go ahead with your second pick. Oh, no problem. Yeah, so my other pick I came up with was Polywork. So I don't know if y'all have heard of it, but it's a new social network that is Twitter meets LinkedIn is the way they described it to me without the popularity contest. So it's not so much like high school. You can't see follower count, but you can follow people. And right now it's invite only. I have a few invite codes if you want to get in, Kevin. And it's basically you can like tag your posts with what you're working on and then you can sort and filter to see people that are doing the same things as you are collaborating. Like it's just it's a really cool idea and I'm hoping that it grows. And they've now got a login functionality, which makes it way more usable for me. And hopefully an Android app is coming. So looking forward to that. All right. My problem with it is I was invited early on because I signed up with Cassidy Williams. I cannot log in. I cannot log in. I don't know what it is. I think it's one of my apps. Your magic link didn't work? Yeah, it doesn't work. It just redirects me to the landing page I reported this to them and they like we working on it We know it an issue i don know what it is it just like a conflict with one of my extensions or whatever uh so i just refuse to use it have you tried it since they added the login authentication thing yeah oh yeah oh and oh that's unfortunate and now that's one of those things where like uh i think james kyle from from the rome tools team was like there are two things that You need to test above all. One is billing to get money. And second is login. If anything else can be broken in your app, and people will tolerate that. But if people cannot log in, they cannot use your app. So you must test billing and auth. I did not use it for the first few weeks when it was just the magic link. I thought that was really hard because you would be sent to your email and then you would have to drive back to the app. And it wasn't like I could go into the app and just post stuff like Twitter or whatever. But yeah, so that was unfortunate. But now that it's got auth, I can just log on. So it's just like a web page. You know, there are a few startups that are predicated entirely on magic links. They're like, you don't need any passwords anymore. And I think there's a startup that's got like something ridiculous, like $400 million in a Series A funding to do this magic link thing. And like, really? Is it worth that much? No. And I mean, I like the QR code piece of Discord. and I like not having to remember my password for that. Oh my God, Discord is so convenient. You just like, yeah, do the QR code. Like everyone should have that. I do that. I do like that, but I don't know if I could do a way with just like the authentication system for things that I need to log into like immediately. Yeah. Is there a way to use like Discord as a single sign provider with like a QR code I never seen it Yeah That be pretty cool That would be awesome They should do it Like OAuth Yeah Sign in with Discord Yeah Oh my God On everything Yeah They would just throw it away Yeah I mean relatedly one of the things that we did we were redesigning our off system at work and we realized that actually it really helps the company to do this correctly. So every, like the company should have a relationship with you, the user, independently of the company they happen to work at. So you think about Slack, right? Like every time you sign into a new Slack, they're like, who the hell are you? Please log in. And it's super annoying. Whereas Discord, you have one identity and you're immediately logged into all the Discords that you're currently in. And this is something that I think, when you think about the apps that you use for work, some of them make you use individual logins for every company or situation or team that you're on. And when you leave the team, when you leave the company, dead to them forever. Whereas others, like basically GitHub, have this ongoing relationship with you as a person, and you have temporary associations with companies and organizations. So basically what we realized was we want the GitHub model because we want our relationships with all users to survive any present employment that they have. And it's just a big insight for me. I mean, it sounds obvious when I say it, but people do this badly, like Slack. It may sound obvious, but it sounds like really what should happen. I hate when I log into a site and I can't remember which email I used. And so you're logging into like three different Gmails and it just creates a new account for you. Oh, right. Yeah. I can't stand that. So I agree. I want like one thing to live for my authentication on each site And I don know what the solution for that is but that would be amazing I know the solution What? It's a web author and I picked it last week. I don't think it's the solution. No, it's about schema design, right? If you start with company first and then a person is a member of team, team is a member of company. When a person leaves the company, they're lost forever, right? Whereas if you start with the person first and then you associate them with the company, then you can keep that association for the rest of the person's relationship with you. So it's just a fundamental insight in schema design for auth, which, again, I'm getting excited about this stuff. Just because I've been on a company where we hope to be with developers for a very long time. So GitHub's auth is really great for B2B stuff. That's awesome. Yeah, for sure. All right. I think that's it. Thank you for coming on, Brittany. Thank you so much for having me. I've been a fan for a long time. I've listened to all the episodes, except for the two that I'm still catching up on, but I appreciate it. No, I appreciate you being so active in Svelte, in WebDev, and showing away for other people of non-traditional backgrounds. I think we're both from, I don't know if you know, but I also came out through FreeCodeCamp. and yeah, there's just so many people like us. And I think we need to show that they can be leaders in the community as well and mentors. And successful. Yeah, definitely. All right, cool. See you all next time. Bye. See you later. Thanks.