 welcome to svelte radio we're back it's another episode of svelte radio yay it's it's the usual hosts but we also have another guest li hao tan is back to talk about svelte maintaining svelte contributing to svelte and also his new youtube channel well maybe it's not so new now but you've been working on it for a while yeah so i guess uh let's uh let's get started what have you been up to since uh since last time you were on must have been a long time like one year ago or something? You mean me? Yeah. Okay, sure. So since the last time I've been working on my YouTube channel, I've been posting, I've made like a ton of contents about Svelte, especially on the Svelte tutorials. And then actually that's most of the things that I've been doing. And apart from work, really, like I think work has picked up pick up a lot of works right now. So juggling with works and YouTube channel and maybe a little bit of maintaining spell kind of things. It's like mostly most of my schedules right now. Yeah, so you're still at, was it Shopee? Yep, Shopee. So we are the number one e-commerce in Southeast Asia. And I'm not sure, that's what our company says, but I'm not sure whether you follow, but we have been entering the Latin America market. So I think right now we have like, say, Brazil, Mexico. These are the ones that we are trying to entering. Like we've entered, I think, one or two years and try to build our markets over there as well. So it's exciting times, right? A lot of internationalization works have to be done on the front end. Those kind of things. I guess you're not using Svelte yet. Yeah, we are not. Yeah so the code base is humongous right now And actually we are trying to explore something like a micro front end which is like a way for us to enable developers to allow them to basically split out our like huge code base into smaller pieces and allows them allows individual like feature developers to build and release their features independently, right? So right now we are trying, I'm the one that setting this up, basically try to lay down the foundations and hopefully we can get, yeah, hopefully we can like break out like smaller pieces of our code to like individual, independent features. And then hopefully like individual developers can choose to say build their features in frameworks that they like and things like that, right? because it's really hard for us to say if you want to switch to Svelte and everyone has to change their code base, that does not make sense. And if you want to, say, have two different kind of frameworks built together at the same time, that's also some sort of overhead. So we like to think that we allow them to build individually and then we figure a way to piece all them out together. Then the way that you build, you will have to choose. You have more freedom to choose what kind of build tools and stacks that you want to, and we still piece all of them together at once. So how does the business feel about that when you're effectively taking your dev team and siloing them into sections of people who either can or cannot work on a certain part of the code base? Because that's the resistance I've had before with micro frontends is having you ultimately dilute effectively your pool of developers. and i don't buy it because i think you know anyone can do anything but it's a common thing i face yeah so actually it's it's slightly different story on our case on our case our actually we because our business grows very fast and we actually have to hire a lot and therefore we are not we couldn't like hire fast enough within our region so we started hiring from say from from China and we actually have developers sitting in China. And that's what gets us started thinking about. How do we work with them? Like, are we going to allow them to come into our repo and like, you know, make like one changes to the same repository and making the same build together Or should we like figure a way a mechanism for them to build on their own and then piece it in right So that's what Getsle started doing that. And then we realized that actually, hey, we also started to have smaller teams that are growing bigger. And so it may, the same team may be one day working in like this region and then suddenly they may be migrated over or handed over to another team and things like that. So we want to have flexibility on like, allow us to do that at wills, right? So we want to reduce that friction of like, who is maintaining the code and does not conflict. I wouldn't say conflict, but like make it easier for them to allow them to have more flexibility in building and releasing their feature code. That's what we are facing right now. So we definitely, we are not going to do, we are not, we didn't do like microfinance from the start. And definitely it doesn't make sense if you have a small team and you decide to do something like that. It's definitely because of the business needs and management needs where sometimes they decide on the management level, they say, oh, this feature should be handed over to another team because they have more resources over there and they should hand over some of the features over here because maybe we know it, we can do it better and things like that. And it's not just developer team, right? Because the whole product involves, say, business sides of things, product management, designers, QA engineers, and all those stuff, right? So when they say they want to move it over to a different center, it's actually moved the whole entire verticals over. So it's not a small thing to us, you see, right? Yeah. Just to give a size, how many developers are we talking about? How many front-end developers? Are we talking 100, 1,000? You mean for front-ends or for the... What's the scale of the micro front-end problem? Okay, so I guess in terms of the front-end right now, basically like we right now we are currently working on like this microfinance for just the marketplace right so when you talk about like we are the e-commerce so you have marketplace where you are going facing for the buyer you also have other portals that's facing for the sellers to upload their listings you have portals for internal users so right now we are trying this out on the marketplace side, right? And in terms of the size, right now I can't give the exact figures over here, but we roughly have say 60 over people within Singapore and then maybe roughly around the same size in China in Shenzhen office So that roughly the size that we have right now like working on just the marketplace. The reason I ask is because I think when the microphone discussion comes up, a lot of people don't see the need for it. And that's mainly because they work in smaller teams than that. And then I definitely tend to see that the companies with larger teams than like 100 or 200 people, they really started to feel the pain. So I wanted to establish the scale. So imagine this where we have like every week, if say, for example, I'm working on my own current branch and say maybe every Monday, I just try to pull all the commits from the master branch and you will feel the pain because every week, at least like more than 1,000 or 2,000 commits happening, right? In terms of, maybe people make small comments. You may say that, but maybe if you look at like the branches, maybe there will be like 50 to 100 branches merging into master on Monday because that's what we do every week. We have a weekly cadence of like releasing features. So every Monday, that's where you get everything merging in. That's like 50 to 100. I wouldn't say maybe like roughly 50 for average regular week. When you've got like 100 branches merging in at once, obviously all of those things have been tested and work in isolation how do you test the combination of all of those things suddenly yeah so that's that's why that's why we have a weekly cadence because that's where we we force like our regressional team to to test it like on after we merge everything in like we have like maybe two days window to test everything and then every week we just repeat this yeah so uh of course like uh when you merge although you it sounds it sounded like a lot of like branches and it it may sound like a lot of much conflicts but it it's actually not that way because like the whole thing is is huge you have all sorts of features working in isolations right so it may be people working from like say the product page there are branches from shop page there's like promotional stuff there's like checking out stuff other stuff so they're actually working in silos and like the chances of getting a merge conflict is actually not as huge as you would think but if you work on something more on a fundamental level then yeah that is like that that is like

 tragic you end up with yeah so so we right now we are like trying our best to like stabilize the core and like think like maybe think a bit like forward thinking a bit of like what is like the base platform level kind of things so that when we when we like get real bigger or start to spin off to smaller micro front ends we still have like um i don't know control or things like that So one of the cons that we definitely would foresee is that once everyone starts to spin off like micro frontends, then it's harder to, say, optimize the whole site as a whole or make changes or rolling out changes as a whole, that kind of thing. Say, for example, if I want to upgrade React, that will be pain, right? I guess that's why there's like React 18, if I'm not mistaken, where you can have different versions of React running at the same time. Because it's too huge now. You can't force everyone to upgrade at the same time and check all their features are still working fine. Yeah, I think one of the concepts of micro front ends is that you don't upgrade React. You just kind of upgrade whatever framework Section X is using and you upgrade that framework there and then you test it. You don't say everyone's going to move to React 18 now. Yeah. I think, so this sounds like micro front ends are a bit like a Trojan horse to bring in Svelte. Yeah. Right? i i hope so yeah all right i mean i mean yeah it's like it's like a trojan horse i think isn't it it's it's a great way of doing things you know because there is no uh silver bullet there's no one tool that is the best tool for the job every time for every job so therefore micro front ends logically makes a lot more sense because you are effectively you're going to use the right tool for the job maybe you know it makes more sense that part of the site is is completely statically rendered maybe part of the site needs to be super dynamic using web sockets but there's no way that i and i've worked on systems that have done trading systems because they've needed web sockets for like the real-time data it means they've gone well every single part of the system must use web sockets now and implementing login and things that would traditionally be rest with web sockets it's just nonsense it doesn't make any sense so i think there's there's a lot more to micro front ends and the definition of micro front ends is also wildly different depending on how you talk to we at BeyondCast micro frontends because every single divisive section of the site is actually a different app not multiple frameworks on one page or you know parts of a view being composed from different services which is what I've seen in the past. So, yeah, I think microfrontends is a weird phrase because it encompasses a little too much. That is very, very true. That is very, very true. Yeah, I should have disclaimer before that. Like, when I say microfinity, I mean this, something like that. Yeah. Yeah, this is one of those, it's quite mis-marketed, especially if you go to micro-frontends.org, because this is something that they have, you know, their prime example is one where three different teams, one team uses Angular, one team uses React, and the third team uses Vue. And they even have like a working demo where they show you all these things in production. But the demo doesn't use any framework. They use web components, which is pretty funny. Because that's the only way you make it fast, right? If you're downloading the runtime for Angular Vue and React, you're not really optimizing for users. So I think microfinance tends to be mismarketed very heavily. And therefore, that also makes it hard because people who use it and like it are trying to say one thing. And then the people who don't like it just focus on a different side, which is the obvious negatives. One follow-up I had was Webpack 5 had a lot of fanfare around its support for microfinance. and I just wanted to ask if that's been helpful for you guys. Yeah, so when we were starting on setting up our microfinance, I think Webpack 5 wasn't around yet. So definitely we started. I mean, the module federations actually was in discussion. So that's what we've seen when we were setting things up. So we obviously work in progress. There's like a proof of concept branch, but then it's not ready yet. So we decided to roll our own. But of course, since now it's out, so probably it will be more of like a maintenance kind of thing where we will see how we can swap our build mechanism, like our fundamentals out. So basically what we have right now is that we have like, we roll our own, like, so how does all the individually built apps fit together or how do we find them? It's like through some sort of like, like a manifest where you figure out where to download each of them and piece them together. Right. So um we think probably that would be something that we could uh so we have pieces of like microfinance we piece it piece them together and they sometimes they share like common libraries right say for example react so it wants to right now we we roll our own way to say sort of like one of the apps which is like the main platform will provide like the react library where it builds with react and provides to all the applications so that you don't have to bundle them together that's what we do right now but of course this can be done with modules federation in a sense where you can say each of them can build bundle their own react but it will be only loaded so whoever comes in first will load their version of react but of course that will also means that we will have to figure a way also to say make sure that everyone's agree on upon on like the React version. If you are using a different React version, then you will have to say, I don't want to use the so-called shared React and I want to bring in my own React. So these are the things that can be, I guess Webpack can help us out. But right now we kind of like have our own simple way of like injecting like say React into all the applications. Yeah, just wanted to make sure we mentioned it because it's a big deal for those people who do microfinance. I had no idea. But I have no idea about Webpack. People are really excited about it, and I have no use for this. But if you run into this at work, you know what my definition is about. We haven't really played with it. I just study about it, but we haven't really tried it out yet. All right. So should we talk a bit about Svelte? Your Twitter is full of all these fun tips. Do you have any? yeah yeah i think so like it's it's one of those things where i when i log on to to check my tweets for the day or for the week i you you always have like some nice code examples of stuff that you've you've done like have you uh how do you how do you like figure out what what to post there oh okay so So to be honest, I don't really post that often. So right now, what I have is probably you've been seeing my older posts. So I've been retweeting the same thing every few weeks, I guess. Yeah it really hard to come up with good tips so tips about Svelte and things like that But of course i can talk about like how i get like inspiration on like how how to come up with them right so basically once in a while i will be going into this i don't really go do this often but once in a while i'll just like go into the discord channel and look through the questions people of questions that people are asking there actually it's it's a very vibrant community right now in in the discord where actually like i will see that like people are answering people's questions right now like and every every time of the day right so it's like every it feels like in every part of the world there's people using svelte and there are people answering people's questions and in any time of the day and it's like it's really amazing right now so what i did was like there was this week where I basically kind of like finished building up my YouTube channel. So this is something that probably we can talk about it later on. So I kind of like build up the whole tutorial list on my YouTube channel. So I just basically followed like every chapters on the Svelte tutorials and like sort of like make it as like a video version of it. And towards the end of it, I realized that, oh shit, I have no idea what to work on next. So, and also I realized that not a lot of people know about my channel. I don't really get people to... How do I get people to know about it? So I decided to, say, post on Twitter or post it on, say, Facebook. And then I realized that if I just post it on Twitter as a link to the video, not everyone would be interested to click on it. Especially if you ask me, to be honest, I wouldn't click on any video links on Twitter because I was there to scroll. I want to just read text. I don't want to watch video content that has sounds in it. So I decided that a better way would be create a tweet version of the content, partially, as well as supplement with the video links if you want to watch the video. I'm not sure about how well it's doing because I didn't really look at the analytics of it. I didn't really. But at least I know there's some sort of traffic coming on Twitter. But at the same time, I realized that, hey, how about I can do it even more sneakily where I just go into Discord channel and previously I was posting it in just like on the resource channel right and then I realized that maybe I should do one step like into the game where I go into the Svelte channel and try to answer questions and I and

 I look at the questions that, oh, actually, you should do this. And if you don't understand this, you should watch my video. So that's like how I try to sneak in my videos. But I didn't really do it consistently. I tried that for maybe a week. That week definitely improves in terms of subscribers and views and stuff like that. But yeah, I didn't really get it through every day. It's like I stopped a while, but I guess that's really helpful. Probably I would do that more in the future. Yeah, so tips are actually coming from them. Oh, right. Yeah, that makes sense. But you also do some, like, when there are some new features, you usually do, like, a tweet series where you show, like, the new... I remember you did, like, the fragments feature a while back. Yeah. You did, like, a tweet series of that. Yeah, so the thing about this is that I realized that I'm not that consistent. so like there was a few versions of Svelte that I tried to like make a tweet on like what is new in this version but then after a while it's like uh I just like didn't follow through yeah yeah but definitely like if you if you like it definitely I will try to do it more often yeah I think consistency is why I don't have like a blog or a youtube channel or a big twitter following because I'm just not consistent at all. It just really depends on the mood during the day. So I can't really blame you for that at all. I'm kind of the same as well. It's hard. It's hard. I have to say it's really hard. I think the podcast, for example, I probably wouldn't do it if Sean and Anthony didn't do it with me because I would just be lazy and not do anything. That's nice, isn't it? Yeah. But also you make it possible with all the scheduling. For those who don't know, Kevin does all the scheduling and the uploading. And we just show up every time he schedules something. Yeah, right. We have the easiest job here. But yeah, creating anything is hard and keeping it up. It's definitely a commitment. You have to have a bigger reason, I think, which is why I think we're interested in why Li Hao is working on YouTube, even though he doesn't use Felt at work. What motivates you? yeah so I have to say like the tutorial on Svelte is really amazing it's like a lot of people learn Svelte from there myself included I learned it from like trying out the tutorials and basically learn out all the say how to use the logic blocks and how to use the components props and things like that, right? But when I see like people asking questions about Svelte, I realized that there's also places that there's like rooms to improvement, but I'm not really sure like how to improve it on the tutorial itself because like it's concise for a reason. It's like, Like it's a good place to get started. But of course, after a while, you might hit something that it's like maybe edge cases and things like that. Especially say, for example, like reactivity and stuff like that. It's a bit hard to just explain it in a few words or maybe like explain it. I don't feel myself comfortable even explaining it in like, say, a blog, for example. Sometimes it's better to explain by looking at visuals. right so i guess that's why i also sometimes like post like say snippets of code say like a very simple code that like when you look at it you kind of understand right but then sometimes you you want to compare a few code samples i say like this is working this is not and this is working and you change this line and this is not right uh if you if you make it like a snippet like on tweets twitter or like on a blog post you have to scroll up and down or switching between stuff right but if you're watching a video it's like it's you're playing it in in motion and you able to like see how it plays out and things like that so i realized that oh actually maybe a better way of explaining things would be creating like a video but to be honest myself i don't really like watching videos like i'm more of a trying out myself kind of guy so so i try to do that in my video as well where i'm like trying out for you right so if you if you want to like say I try to explain things in a way where I say, let's see what happens if I comment this line out or what if I add this line in and how should it, why it behaves in a certain way and things like that, right? So that is the thing that usually it's very, very hard to like find it in like an article to explain that to you, right? Sometimes they explain the big picture, but like nitty gritty stuff that you have to actually play it out yourself to actually feel it sometimes, Right. And I try to do that. I'm not sure whether I succeed in doing it in my video, but I'm just trying to do a video that is like trying things out for you. And you can watch it if you lazy to try things yourself Right So that what I try to do in my video So I try to go through the tutorials in a sense where I to like go through every chapters and things like that As I said just now like it very hard to be consistent So I decided like say instead of like going like pick a topic and talk about it and things like that, I decided to just stick with like a schedule, which is like the tutorial list. So I just go through every topic in the tutorial so that I have to like follow through everything. And it's also good in a sense where it follows in a flow where the later part of the, say, my playlist, they actually refers back to things that I talked before, right? Because tutorials actually build it that way, right? You learn things step by step along the way. So now I have like, hopefully I have like a collection of contents where basically if you want to know about something, there's always something to refer to. And that makes it easier to explain things to people as well, right? I can always send them a link and say, hey, just watch this. I've created some content about that. Yeah, I really like them. I specifically like the ones on stores, like the derived stores, for example, and the custom stores. Those were really nice. Because I didn't really realize that the derived stores were as complex as they were. I had no idea. Well, I did have some idea about what you could do. But like, for example, when you pass in like an array of stores and like, there are all these like combinations of things that isn't apparent from just reading the tutorial or the, or even the, the API. Yeah. So the, the, the documentation does say that you can pass in an array or a stores, or you can have like a two arguments, like whether you have a set, like a asynchronous derived store and things like that. right? So what I did was just try to like be like trying out for you. I tried to like draw it out like a two by two matrix. Like, okay, you have like a one store with like synchronous, multiple stores with synchronous and one store that's asynchronous and multiple stores. Like just try out all the different versions of things. And yeah, so that's how like I try to structure my video in that way that just try out all the possibilities that you can think of and see this is how it will behave. and things like that yeah yeah it's weird because i use stores quite a lot but i always struggle to find a use for the readable store um i just don't i can i always try and make one to start with try and keep it simple and encapsulated and then a little bit later on i just end up having to make it writable in the end it just every time yeah i realized that readable stars unless you have something very atomic I guess like some things that change itself then it's a readable. But if you want something that will be changed later on, most of the times you slowly realize that you want to change it from the outside or change it somewhere else or change it. Yeah, you have other factors that want to change it. In the end, you realize that maybe readable is something that you want and it's much easier to change it. Because readable is that when you create a start, you have to have a way to just, you really have to design a way to change it from the inside. Which is generally down to having like a timer or a setting tool or something. Yeah. That's true. I was wondering if we want to go through some of your favorite tips, you know, just from your backlog of content. What have been some of your favorite questions or discoveries as you go through and answer questions? You mean like my favorite videos? Or tips, right? Because you do tweet threads with these answers. Okay, so this is me judging based on number of likes and tweets and response on the videos. I mean, to be honest, I don't really have a particular... It doesn't occur to me in a way that I see this... like oh i want to create content about this and i prepare contents and realize that okay this is going to be viral and things like that it doesn't occur to me this way yet like i don't have a like a viral eyes or like ways to detect viral content right so it's just me that trying to come with a content to explain certain things and some dust goes off and some just like yeah so i realized that The ones that is about how do you actually call a function from a parent component. I guess that one is, yeah, call a function inside a component from the parent. I guess that's one of the videos that a lot of people, or that tweets. I tweeted it as well. I tweeted the content as well. And I realized that that is one of those that a lot of people like about. yeah that's interesting yeah I guess people didn't realize that you can call like functions inside like if you export a function from a component it actually turns into like a method for your component instance

 I guess that's not explained anywhere, and somehow it just works that way. It's always like a revelation to people, I guess. That's why. That's interesting. That's not what I would have guessed, I think. Yeah. So I guess the other one that people would like to learn about is the contextual. I think when to use a context or a store. it was like a one of those videos about store and a lot of people ask these questions where when should you use context when should you use a store I think that one is pretty nice as well as in a lot of people having good comments on that as well so my answer to that would be they are actually solving different problems that a lot of people are not aware about that you can use context alone or you can use star alone or you can use context and star together or and and there's like a again it's like to me i try to draw it and it's a two by two matrix again where no context with star context with no star context with star and no context and no star there's always like there's four different kinds of ways to communicate from like one component to your say children component or other components right so i try to break it down that way and see why or what are the reasons that you want to use one or the other and what can like how and I try to come up with an example that is that can fit all four different kinds of scenarios where you see how it will behave differently if you just use one or the other or both yeah I have a confession which is I've never used context oh wow you're in for a treat yeah yeah but to be honest like it doesn't really it really depends on whether you need it or not, right? So maybe if you don't have something that you want to pass down from, you don't want a scenario where whatever components goes under that tree to receive that value and receives a different value when the component is being under a different component tree, then you wouldn't need a context, right? So these kind of scenarios are not that often, I would say. It's not like always you find the scenarios that you need that. Yeah, I think, so I implemented like a tabs and a tab component a couple of weeks back And then I instead of like using the what it called The, like the slot props thing, you can just, so you don't have to like, I don't know how to explain this. But like, it was a nice way of using the context instead of, yeah. So you have your tab content where if it's inside this tab component, you will communicate with this tab. If it's in the other component, you will communicate to that tab component. So you need to know where you are in. That's when you would think about using context. I like that you were better explaining what I did than I. And I implemented it, so that's good. Yeah, I think I also learned by experimentation rather than actually understanding the concepts. much more sense to me if I can see the result like Lihau was talking about, you know, when you're changing something and you're removing a line and see what happens It's nice Have you done anything on Svelkit? No, no One simple answer, no So no very strong reason why, it's just that a lot of people are working on it right now so things move very fast, I would say and usually it moves in, I would say roughly like a New York time zone. Like things move fast in a sort of like US time zone. So new issues come out in that time zone and it fixed at the same time, that kind of thing. So it's usually like things that lives for the next day that I can wake up and look. Like if that issue lives longer to the fact that I would wake up in Singapore time and saw it, usually is something that I'm not sure I could even able to fix it. So I just like leave it as it is. And it's fixed the next day, right? So yeah, I didn't really like really participate in like the SvelteKit development. I think that's GitHub Copilot. I think it's just automatic fixing bugs it finds. It's very good like that. So making YouTube videos, that's not something I've ever really done. Is it fun? Are you finding it to be rewarding? Do you like doing it? Yeah, sure. I would say it's fun when you're on a high where you are like constantly coming out with content, right? So at a point where during a period where I was just like following on the tutorials where I was just like okay this is my goal By the end of this month I want to do the whole tutorials thing right So every day I have like okay this is what I going to do next if right So tonight I'm going to do if, tomorrow I'm going to do each, and the next day I'm going to do awaits. So that everything is planned out and it's very fun to just like coming out with content. After that, it's like, oh, I need a new goal or new aim or new targets where I would like spend maybe right now in my case i would spend like maybe during the week to work on like to come out with ideas and maybe record it during the weekend but then that creates another problem where during a week days if i don't do anything i don't have anything for the weekend and then i will like procrastinate and wait it for the next week and then after a while it just like cools down and i don't feel like doing videos but when i'm like on a run and yeah just talking and like making stuff like if you notice my video i didn't really do a lot of editing so it's less work to me where i'm just like a sort of semi live coding where i think of like i have i have a draft of like okay this is like an example that i need to come up with maybe i have sometimes i show you on a separate screen sometimes i like i i i write it once and then i delete it so it's still in my memory and i do it like immediately like recording it as a video right so i don't need a lot i didn't do a lot editing like record it and press record and like talk through the whole thing and and just make sure the audio sounds okay and i did a very simple like transition in terms of video where you see my face first and then it will shrink to the corner but that's all the extent of like the video editing that i'm doing so that's like i don't really do like subtitles and stuff i tried once i realized that on one of the video and i realized that it's it's so boring it takes me like like of maybe a five minute videos of me speaking will have to have me like maybe more than 10 minutes to like subtitle it maybe maybe more even more than that like maybe half an hour to just type everything out in in text right that's that's where i realized that uh i'm not going to do subtitles i i guess it's also to the extent of same reasoning of i'm not doing like i'm not writing any blog posts right now because like writing things down and you you realize that you need to be grammatically correct and like flow goes through and things like that if you are just speaking you just speak at your heart will and i guess people are more forgiving listening to people than like reading right so yeah in that sense it quite fun for me just like talk through and then record and upload and then there you go so it not a lot of work on my side at this moment right now that that makes sense to me like i'm i'm i think i'm very much the same like the the parts of the podcast that that i think are fun is the actual recording part right the editing is not fun. So I don't do it. That's the reason I don't YouTube at all is because the editing is just, I just can't stand it. I guess I should mention Descript, which is an app that matches your transcription to your video. And if I was going to do that, that's the tool that I would use. Yeah, but it is still a lot of work, but I think people are using AI to make it slightly easier. Yeah, okay. So I think I use a similar for the transcripts for the podcast. I use something called Otter AI. So it's something similar. But it's still, like you say, it's still a lot of work. We still have to correct things. The AI doesn't understand some term. It's all over the place. We used one that was like mostly right, but then made some weird mistakes, didn't it? were these were these services advertising themselves as a fully uh machine driven service or were they advertise themselves as a fully human driven service or were they suggesting that they get the machine to do most of the work and then get a human to run run over it so so for for the first few transcripts we uh i i paid for the like both the editing and the transcripts and i think those transcripts were pretty decent um but then i uh i think i figured out it was it was just too expensive that editing service so we switched to another one that didn't have transcription and then i decided to try that otter otter.ai thing and that that that basically just does the machine learning ai oh it doesn't have any humans at all no no you have to go through it and like match the the speaker with the it's pretty good at guessing but sometimes it gets things yeah so youtube has a pretty good uh auto trans subtitles right if you if you choose subtitles because when i upload it i chose it to be like i specify that i'm speaking english and there's a auto subtitles where you can choose that will come out

 and find it like it's it's quite good it's just that if i want to make it like perfect i will have to go in and edit it myself and then like i can like youtube already generate that and i can edit it but to go in and edit myself and yeah change every character that is like incorrect it will be like a hassle and i deserve not to do that especially when i'm not pronouncing svelte correctly like that is always wrong i mean that was the perfect pronunciation there so just maybe like when you talk about it just just stop and say svelte just that's actually that's that's something i always have to like correct in the uh in the transcripts actually really yeah yeah yeah and and some weird like technical terms but yeah anyway yeah right should we uh talk a bit about like your uh contributions to svelte like you've been working a bit lately on the what's the rfc called is it the const const no idea const expression constant thing yeah yeah so it's a new logic block thing right kind of it's it's not really a logic it's more like a template syntax i guess you can i don't really even know like how to say it so it's the way that you write it it's it's more like a tag where you know we have right now we have two tags. We have the HTML. So you have curly brackets, add, and then HTML where you can put in HTML content. You have a debug tag where you can add debug and then you put in an expression and every time the expression changes you will see a console log or if you open your dev tools you will have a debugger breaking at the right position, right? So right now we have this is like a new one which is a const C-O-N-S-T Although we have discussion about like the naming itself, but it's going nowhere. So I'm just going to leave it as like const. I'm just going to call it const tag because it's a tag because it's just like HTML tag or debug tag, right? So what it does is that sometimes this is one of the things that you would encounter. For example, if you're doing, say, await, await, or you're doing each, what happens when you are iterating through something, right? Of course, you can deconstruct whatever you're iterating through, right? The items. But after that, you also sometimes you want to, say, calculate something, like come out with a local variable that is depending on whatever the item that you iterating through right Say maybe you have each array of items and then you want to calculate like say items total equals to items dot price times items dot amounts, right? Some things like that, right? You want to have a total where you can use it in multiple places, right? So if you have one place to use it, of course, you just use like, you just have a curly brackets and say items dot amounts time items or price, But if you have a few times, you realize that you want to have local variables. And this is where the const tag comes in, where you can say, hopefully we'll say, add const and then total equals to item.price times items.quantity. And then you can use that total in the local scope. So it's like declaring a local variable in places where it makes sense. For example, each, you have await because you await promise then. and then you have like a local place where you want to calculate local stuff or you have say a component and then you have a slot props coming in like a let's binding and then you want to derive something over there. If you use it elsewhere, it actually doesn't really make sense because you can always define that variable outside because you're not putting a new scope within the template, right? So we are going to, the idea would be like adding like places where you can add more local, sort of like local variables within the html templates it's super useful actually because i i do find myself needing that on a fairly regular basis i end up calling methods and it's not quite the same calling a method because sometimes it doesn't it's not reactive in the way you'd expect it to be question definitely for the audience here because i totally know because you know i'm a maintainer right why are certain of those squiggly bracket tags as we're going to professionally call them why are some of them uh why do they have an at and why do some of them have a hash what's what defines whether it's a hash or an at the balance i don't know i i would say like okay that's good yeah i don't feel so bad now but i feel like probably hey so to be honest like me i don't really like although i say i'm one of the maintainers but i'm i don't really like my role What I do most of the times, if you notice, is mainly triaging issues, fixing stuff, and implementing stuff that people propose. I rarely propose new things unless it things that relates to how to fix certain things that make things feel more correct Most of the time when you have new syntax or things like that actually at the end of the day we all look at Rich and hopes that he has an answer to things right So things, I would say like he dictates the style and the taste of the language itself. Yeah. Right. So if I have to guess, you realize that maybe anything that starts with a hash, it's more for like a logic blocks. at least right now what we have is like the if, each and await and everything else I don't know why but it's at at least that is how it is right now so why key I don't know so someone proposed it and just implemented it but I have no idea I would say like at least to my eyes it doesn't feel wrong so I yeah I think it makes sense I mean it kind of at seems right for a debug because it's not something that really lives inside the code it doesn't it's not like it doesn't affect template output for example or it shouldn't do but then HTML really does so it makes it's kind of confusing and I wonder if it's to do with one is a rendering concern and one is almost like an escape hatch it does something more logical rather than visual I don't know I think the thing you're right though like Rich is definitely the vision behind Svelte has you know always was and still is there are actually very few maintainers who understand the full code base there's not actually many people understand that and it's and it's a known thing it's quite a complex thing to get your head around and i think the other thing is yeah like you say uh you know you and i are both maintainers but i certainly joined because i was treasuring a lot of bugs and answering questions and and doing sort of stuff that was like housework around around the issues it's very rare that i contribute actual code to the code base a lot i have done a fair bit on svelte kit and it's also pretty rare that I will end up defining a new language a new function like a new language feature or something like that because it's generally a lot of the things I see for Svelte come from a place of oh I need this thing it's just me who needs it versus Rich is more thinking of web dev as a whole needs this this function maybe this needs this feature so so yeah it's all about depending on how people have people think and stuff like that Yeah so a small thing to add on on that would be definitely it not something about the parser or compiler about why we chose hash instead of add or why this or that right It definitely I mean we wrote the whole compiler and the parser so definitely it more like the taste of like the maintainers or rich himself to to feel like this should be look at uh read this way and not the other and and the whole yeah the look and feel of the language itself yeah there's a lot there's a lot of classification that goes on like that especially naming and stuff you know we know that naming is one of hardest problems in computing and i think that this goes on with it as well it's there's a lot of a lot of consideration goes into every directive every tag name every built-in every attribute that goes into the svelte dsl so so yeah it they'll have they'll be a purpose for it we just don't know what that purpose is between us yeah that reminds me of something that was discussed recently about uh the dollar dollar dispatch so this was this thing where i think a lot of people has this pain on me i particular has had this pain when i was like working on videos about event dispatcher where i have to every time when i was working on that video i have to say import create event dispatcher and create a dispatch function right so uh would it be better that we have like a dollar dollar dispatch that will just automatically do that instead right and of course we are still in discussion but then like rich has his own reasoning about like what should be a dollar dollar like variables and what shouldn't be and like he has his own like reasoning and all this if you ask me i would say oh if it's it will if it works it works right like i don't really i didn't really think that far like it's a shorthand yeah why not right things like that but he actually has his own reasoning behind like when you should add certain things and why certain things should be added and why certain things shouldn't yeah things like that And it's that clarity, it's that exactness and clarity of the API that makes Svelte as good as it is. So I think it's a really critical part of Svelte. And it's something that a lot of other languages don't bother with too much or not to the extent that Svelte does. The API is very clean and easy to understand for that reason. The $$ thing is, as I remember it vaguely, $$ is generally used for internal things that may change. So I don't know if $$ dispatch should actually become a thing. and then a single dollar is obviously used for non-internal things, but also for stores. And I think with sort of thinking around how we would change things if there were to be a Svelte 4 or when we work towards Svelte 4, that would be probably considering should the dollar in a store be at the end of the store? Yeah, your store name. Yeah.

 A bit like RxJs. It's definitely not anytime soon, but certainly it's one of those things that you think about. Breaking changes should not be going into Svelte 3 at this point, right? So they get automatically shoved into this imaginary thing called Svelte 4. And one of those things would be the store syntax. Is the dollar at start sensible, logical, or is dollar at the end going to be the way that stores work in the future? Yep. All right. Cool. do we have any other questions for Liho before we move on to unpopular opinions? no? alright unpopular opinions does anyone have one? I'm going nope, me neither I'm all out do you have one Liho? yeah, sure definitely definitely will be my YouTube channel that will be my own my picks yeah, that's not an unpopular opinion though so we're going into pics now so you're you're picking your your youtube channel then right yes i yeah that's great yeah do subscribe uh i don't know uh it's it's it got all those i try to so if you if you have any questions feel free to ask me of course sometimes i may not be that responsive i try my best to juggle between work and like making videos and stuff and and be more consistent and more social within social media and stuff like that but i'll try to answer your questions and also if that happens a lot i would just try to create videos about it so i have this uh just now i talked about like i have a playlist of doing all the tutorials right but i also have a playlist that just answer about svelte questions so i call it like a svelte question time where i like have a i basically every each of the video covers one question about certain things like a small question and like I try to go in and explain like how you should do something or what's your thought process that you should go in to things like that right so let me like list a few will be like say like how do you create like a dynamic elements or how do you call functions inside components or calling functions outside component like calling a function from a parent component or how do you even communicate from two components without using even like store props or context? So everything from spelt is out of all the way, but you still want two components to communicate with each other. Then how would you do it? Right. And I think recent ones that a lot of people are asking will be, how do you actually use store inside a JavaScript file? Like, like, like store magically works in a spelt components where you use a dollar prefix and it works. But how do you actually use it outside of a spelt component? right so explore like two different approaches to two different kind of scenarios right so but be sure to check that out it'll be an interesting one so yeah that will be my pick yep it's a good pick good i like it yeah i like it as well anthony do you have do you have one so my pick is it's a pretty easy one here it's the peloton treadmill essentially like this is that the one behind no no i've actually the cycle trainer is now followed up in the corner so that's now out of the way um there's now a big gap here next to me i've got a weights bench that's folded up it's all just folded up because there's not enough room in this house for all the stuff i have basically but um no the paleson treadmill i'm not a runner um i don't really enjoy running at all my wife loves it so she's it's her treadmill she bought it um and it replaced a sofa in our living room because we didn't have room if we had the sofa still so we we dropped one sofa and put a treadmill there which is not anything like as comfortable to sit on i can tell however however you know she said oh you should try it you'll love it you know you'll like you'll begin to like it and i was like i a cyclist i not a runner i don do running and then i started running a bit on it because it kind of there you know you got no real choice because it quite a big thing it quite dominating um and it you know it quite an expensive thing as well so i feel like i might as well just get some use out of it and actually i really really enjoy it um i'm probably running at least at least three four times a week now maybe on it um it doesn't take long you can do like 15-20 minutes you can do five minutes if you want to um and get a reasonably good workout from it the reason i think i like it's because i find running like a like a hamster in a wheel you know it's kind of it's kind of just laborious it's very hard work which is fantastic exercise but it's really hard work and for me to do so for 20 minutes it's really hard work consistently with no entertainment it's kind of dull you can listen to a spelt podcast for that i could yeah that that sometimes works you know but then my brain thinks well why are you just sitting down listening to a podcast or or having a beer or something right there's something it has to be like a connection between the activity of running and and you actually you know doing your brain being entertained by something which is connected to what you're doing that for me makes something the time pass quicker right and i think peloton are somehow in their classes that maybe the instructors or whatever have nailed that so their instructors are really entertaining they talk nonsense they talk a lot of rubbish really but the what they do is they talk in a way that's kind of engaging and it's engaging uh to do with the activity you're doing and so a run like this 20 minutes you can feel like it's over in like 10 minutes maybe less it's really quite impressive so so yeah i think i'm kind of sold on it really i think uh anyone who's thinking of getting one and hasn't done i would get it because it's actually a really good device well it sounds great i guess it's my turn um so i pick up for i watched the chef movie last night and it was really good i've seen it before but uh it's uh it's a small little i guess indie film with john favreau and robert Donnie Jr. and Scarlett Johansson. It's a pretty star-studded cast. And I think it allegory for Jon Favreau life kind of walking through some of the issues that he faced running the Marvel movies And if you want to see you know really good food and just have a nice heartwarming story, I think it's a good show overall. I recommend it. It's on Netflix. Sounds like my time, maybe actually. Yeah, I love food movies. yeah so i uh i didn't have a pick but then the the treadmill uh discussion spawned one so in barcelona there's this uh group called beer runners the way it works is i think you have a beer and then you run for a while to the next place and then you have another beer and you just do that a couple of times i haven't i haven't done that yet but it sounds like fun because i love running um so okay when when and if i go to barcelona that's definitely something i'm i'm gonna do but we'll see i think uh we do that we do that a lot on cycling where we recycle to pub to pub kind of thing in the countryside uh that's quite fun actually i do enjoy that trying to get too drunk at pubs because it's difficult drinking and cycling yeah i mean it's more of a novelty thing right it's not like you're gonna do it to get drunk that would be very weird it's not replace it for a night out for sure yeah all right i think i think that's it um thank you for coming on lihao uh where can where can people find you you can always find my find me on my youtube channel again no you can you can also like find follow me on twitter uh at lihao tan and i register the same name for my youtube channel as well so it's uh if you go to youtube.com slash lihautan it works as well that will land it on my channel so yeah that will be the places you can find me yeah alright cool thanks for coming on thank you for having me thank you take care guys bye