 Hey, it's another Svelte Radio episode. Woo. Hey, everyone. Hey. Hey. that was pretty weak that was very well ready for your energy i didn't know if we were supposed to say hi or you were you were all right great so yep welcome back everyone to another episode of uh svelte radio i'm sure you know that you're listening to svelte radio already but uh this is svelte radio and uh today sorry is this svelte radio just yeah sorry anthony you're you're you're in the wrong place i don't know yeah so this week we have uh two new people here uh one is a guest we have jeff rich which is the other rich the other rich and we also have a new host britney i'm sure you all know know her already she's on the what's the podcast called coding perfect dev is the podcast. Coding Cat Dev is where the content that we put out. But yeah, I've been on the podcast a couple of times, mainly because of the Svelte Sirens. But I also just started a new gig at Netlify as a developer experience engineer. And this is kind of like what I do day to day. It's like creating content, building fun things, and then we still do engineering rotations. So it's pretty cool. That sounds like a lot of fun. I guess we'll hear a bit about that in a bit um yeah but yeah so we have jeff here welcome jeff hey i'm happy to be here it's i gotta say it's gonna be a little weird because i normally listen to you guys at one and a half speed so it's like you're talking really slow being here in person oh yeah the same thing yeah same so i don't really listen how are you doing there we go hi jeff everyone sounds drunk if you go from like 2x down to 1x it is ridiculous i saw that during the summit because i got a little behind and I was trying to catch up and then eventually you hit the wall where it live again and you like oh everyone talking slow I going to talk really really slowly so that when you listen at 1 I sound normal Yeah that be a big help Thank you All right. So, Jeff, who are you? Yeah. Hello, I'm Jeff. So I am... Sorry, I just jumped into a box. I am a senior software engineer at Alaska Airlines, which is a regional airline here in the United States. and I am also a frequent blogger about Svelte. I've been doing that for probably about a year and a half now and a recent addition to the Svelte core team. So yeah, that's a little bit about me. Congratulations. Thank you. It was really exciting and not expected. It's well deserved. Well, thank you. Now, is it true that your surname, you gave yourself that surname in tribute to Rich Harris? I mean, that's partly true. Yeah, it was actually an undercover operations. If I at least match the man in name, it's more likely that I'll appear more knowledgeable about Svelte and be more likely to be accepted. And you'll become a trainer. That's why we kind of added you. It's the long game. It's been going on for years. It's working out well. Nice. Started even before you were born, probably. This was the goal. My parents had a plan. Wow, they knew Svelte was going to be a thing? Yeah, Premonition. Wow. That's pretty cool. That's some stock in that. yeah so you mentioned alaska airlines uh what do you do there do you just uh do you work with svelte or do you yeah so i mean at alaska airlines i'm a full stack engineer there so i touch the back end and the front end and yeah we use svelte for some things so we're currently in the process of breaking up our big monolith into smaller microsites owned by independent teams independently deployable and for a couple of the microsites my team owns we've chosen to go with svelte for that So we have a few small Svelte sites in production right now, which is exciting. It's nice being able to work on Svelte at work, which I know not everyone has the opportunity to. Is that micro frontends or is that completely separate sites? I think it's not a micro frontend. It's a micro site because we're not pulling in different parts from other teams. It's like an independently deployable site that gets proxied. So if you go to a URL starting with this, you're being served this microsite. If you go to a different URL, you're being served a completely different microsite. Hmm. Okay. Yeah. So that's pretty interesting. I never think that like an airline has so many websites but I guess it kind of makes sense I mean if you think about it there just so much you know there booking there actually viewing your reservation information there accounts there's flight status, there's operational stuff. And the airline business, there's so much deep business logic and knowledge that there's just a lot going on. How do you deal with things like shared style, like shared CSS across sites? Yeah. So we actually have a design system that's been in progress for a few years now, actually built on web components. Because of that microsite nature, my team using Svelte, there's another team using React. We still have legacy.net code. So we need a deliverable there that could be used across all teams instead of having the design system team build a separate version for each framework people are using. So yeah, we have shared design system components built using web components. And then we also have shared, there's some shared base CSS that the newer projects can pull in. Do you know if that's published as like, is that an NPM package? That's what I did at my previous job. So I'm very into design systems and how they work at other places. Yes, that's actually a big thing. The lead on the design system really wanted it to be open source. So it's all open source. If you go to auro.alaskaair.com, you can see everything there. That's being built. And that's all in GitHub as well. We should drop a link to that. oro dot what was the address a uro dot alaska air.com so i mean since you work for alaska air do you live in alaska that's a frequent question but no um i live i live south of seattle and actually our main hub is in uh seatac seattle area so oh yeah most of our there are people in alaska and i think it's alaska because that's where we where we started um it's where some of first airlines were but we're we're all around the west coast so not just alaska that kind of makes sense for an airline to have a hub on the mainland well i mean alaska is the mainland but it's away yeah we still fly a lot of flights to alaska and alaska is still a big part of our business but our hub is in seattle cool cool so being a svelte maintainer now what uh what do you do yeah so i mean since i've become a svelte maintainer i haven't done that much all exciting It's not like, oh, look at this big new feature I shipped. I mean, it's basically what I was doing before. So looking at issues responding to issues where I have feedback or have something to add or asking for reproduction there The biggest thing is probably providing feedback around some accessibility things as they come up One thing in particular, SvelteKit docs got a search bar. And as Rich was working on that PR, he was asking me to take a look at it from an accessibility perspective, and I was able to give some feedback there. And then, yeah, I mean, the biggest difference is now I'm in the maintainer's chat, so I can see a little bit of the behind-the-scenes stuff and get to look at a few things before they're actually out there as an issue or whatnot. But yeah, it's mostly those smaller contributions right now. Yeah, cool. Do you see yourself contributing something bigger, I guess, is how I maybe... Yeah, potentially. I mean, I think the main thing, you know, I've just been busy lately and haven't been able to get back to it. But one thing I'm interested in is getting better reduced motion support in Svelte, which I had a Svelte Summit talk about that last year. And for those who don't know, Svelte has built-in transitions to let you animate things in and out of the page. And one thing you need to do yourself if you're using them is try to take into account, oh, this person is motion sensitive and requested reduced motion, so I should adjust the transitions accordingly. And right now, it's not hard to do, but you have to know how to do it and you have to build it in yourself. And I would love to see something like that become part of Svelte Core that we can teach alongside in the tutorial, saying here, pull in this or use it like this. And just out of the box, you will be taking this into account, or it'll be very easy for you to make the decision what to replace. That would be a great addition as a modifier or something. Oh, yeah. Do you do it with prefers-reduced-motion, the CSS, or how do you do it? Yeah, so it's because Svelte transitions are, they're a mix between CSS and JavaScript. Right now, I use a custom Svelte store that checks the media query. And then you can, like, use a reactive statement to change from, like, a fly to a fade transition. So that's kind of how you have to do it now. There is an open issue around this better support where I and another maintainer went back and forth a few months ago about different options for this. Yeah, whether that's a modifier on the transition, like transition reduced, or what that should look like. So there's some ideas floating around out there. And yeah, I think the main benefit for that is just having a blessed way in the docs where we can say, you know, reduced motion is important and, you know, add this line or two and here's how you do it. instead of copy this code and put this in a file and do all this, just a few more steps. Yeah, I was going to say, and you also mentioned it there, that you used custom store.

 I think the issue with reduced motion support is that it's not a one-liner solution, right? You kind of need to adapt it depending on what you're doing in your application. Yeah, and that's where I think some people suggested, oh, could we automatically swap out this transition for another all the time just by default? And yeah, like you said, there's some nuance there where there's not a right or wrong answer. It depends on you and your users and your application. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. It's just more difficult to do right now in Svelte. So there are ways that Svelte could take that boilerplate code that you kind of have to write away. Yeah. And I wouldn't necessarily say it's difficult, but it's just something you have to know about. And I think at minimum what we should do is take, you know, it's like a 10-line store that tracks whether reduced motion is enabled. Like, I think it would be a good idea to at least take that and just include that in Svelte Core like we have the Spring and Tween stores. So at least have that as a built-in so you don't have to copy that code. you can just import the built-in store and then yeah maybe there's something we could do around directives making that even easier there's also the issue of like having like reduced motion that that doesn't mean no motion yeah it's almost like you're quoting my talk yeah yeah yeah i wonder where i got it from yeah that's the other thing where yeah not all transitions are bad and if you know like the fade doesn't involve motion so that's perfectly fine so that's where yeah britney you mentioned the css snippet where you could you've probably seen in a lot of css resets where if reduced motion, like animation, none transition and all that stuff. And that works as like a blunt instrument, but it's also beneficial to have more nuance and on a case by case basis be like, oh, this should be this transition. This should be swapped out for this instead. Cool. Yeah. All right. So that's something to look forward to. What's it been like so far? Is it nice seeing all the secret stuff that's going on behind the closed doors that we other mortals can't see? No, yeah, it's been nice so far. Like I said, you know, I feel like I haven't done all that much. Um, but it's just, uh, I think I've only been at maybe one maintainer meeting so far, but it's, it's just cool being involved and seeing all the hard work everyone else is putting into this as well. And just makes me more excited about Svelte. I went looking for the search bar that you added, because that's something that people have been wanting for a long time. So you added it to the Svelte kit site. Is there a plan to do it to the Svelte docs? Cause I didn't see it on there. Yeah. Well, well, Rich added it. I just offered feedback, but yeah, I think there's a, an open issue on if I remember correctly I think stealth docs will need to get an overhaul at some point because right now they in the single page format so i don know if the search bar will come because right now you can control f for it but i think if eventually the svelte docs get split up like the svelte kit docs then the search bar would be implemented i'm 99 sure rich mentioned this in his svelte summit talk annoyed annoying things about svelte yeah no i think you're right I might be wrong. Take it from the other rich. Straight from the rich's mouth. Oh, that's great. How many riches are we going to add to the maintainers list? Well, you're actually going to have to... Maintainers are going to have to start changing their name. Like, if you don't have rich in your name, you're second class. It's rich, Anthony. It's Anthony Rich now. Yes, that way it's better. Rich, Anthony, Anthony Rich. I'm not sure which. ah it's all rhyming all right what else is there to talk about with regards to maintaining and being a maintainer do you have inside information on 1.0 there's no like date that maintainers know about that the general public does we're just not telling i just have to ask britney britney that's just what they're saying they don't want to tell us they don't want to tell us it was going to come at Spelt Summit, I was like, they're building up all this anticipation and it's going to come. I think anybody who was to try and join the maintainers or strive to be a maintainer for the privilege of getting the inside information in the maintainers channel would be sorely, sorely disappointed because really there's not a lot of information in there. It's fairly slow moving compared to all of the channels in the Discord. and the information is really not it there's nothing privileged in there like this is open source by the book it's open something's happening there's going to be an issue created yeah that makes sense so you so you guys don't have to turn on uh slow mode in discord because there's so many messages just no i turn on mute mode mute mode i have to do the same thing to channels that I'm not I don't want to be notified about it gets crazy yeah I've actually just turned off like notifications and discord I only have it for like I think one one or two channels and then for private dms I think yeah I moved my company to it so I can really I can really turn notifications off so I have to kind of mute all the open source stuff and then check it at my leisure rather than be notified every single time someone mentions my name which is more often than I think I mean, one thing to mention about maintaining, and Rich talked about this at the summit, just to impress on people the importance of a good reproduction in an issue report. And I've seen this in Svelte and I've seen this, you know, our design system is open source and even people inside the company opening issues. if you don't understand what they want, then it's going to be really hard to fix it. So it goes both for bug reports where you want to provide a good reproduction and then also feature requests. Don't just say, please add this attribute that does this. Help maintainers understand your context and why you want it. Because otherwise, especially in shared codebases, it's not just you. It's not like an internal thing where you can make whatever changes you want. Shared codebases have a lot of external implications. yeah everything's got price right so if there's a bug like investigating it is is one of the big price you know big big ticket things it's like if we're going to dig around to recreate ourselves unless it seems really important we're just not going to have time to do that so it's going to probably get ignored and i think the other thing is for a new feature the price is sure this is a cool feature but how does it affect the learning curve for svelte how does it impact the you know the sort of sprawl of the API and the docs and everything else and testing and, you know, all this kind of stuff comes at a cost. So realistically, you've got to justify, you've got to kind of like fight for the future you want almost. I think that's a great point. It's like the Svelte elements that just got added was in there as an issue for two years or something. Like it got debated over for a long time. Yeah, it's also fleshing out. It's getting the API right. I mean, you know, you look at the Svelte API and you can see it's very clean and neat and concise. and that's the result of a lot of thought and small implementation time you know this this is this is something that there are other frameworks i can't pinpoint one specifically i don't think any of the big ones but where stuff just gets added and added and added and added and you know luckily not having any kind of financial backing uh of any sort felt doesn't have to cater those pressures but ones that have a big company behind them perhaps just have to do the next thing that's needed and and you've got 10 ways to do the same thing and it's pretty painful yeah i think there was a discussion today about like those uh inline components and i'm i i don't like them i don't like them inline components being well you mean yeah so so so like like a smaller template that you can reuse inside of your component Yeah Yeah like fragments almost Yeah, kind of. Oh. Clues in the name. We started on fragments. Single file component. Yeah. Single file components. Nope. Single file components. N. Single file component. Enter. Like backslash N. full stop on the end yeah full stop well not full stop because then it could be like dot multi i know i'm getting carried away is there a better point for fragments like what is their point uh i think it's yeah yeah because like in react you have a fragment just because jsx is jsx yeah yeah so i think the the one use case would be like if you're doing a like an each thing and you want to i i forget the good example uh does anyone know it well if you had if you had each with different types of objects in there right and yes they needed a slightly different layout each i can see the need for it but i would be making multiple components within a single folder to organize that yeah yeah i i think it's just it's so trivial and you can do it as far as pre-process anyway you can use a pre-processer to do this for you so if you really want them you can have them yeah so so there there was also a comment about i think testing or something about slots i i have run into that one before where like i want to test a component but i i need like a little bit of interactivity around it like a dialogue like i need a button to open and close it so i have to create like a separate component just that contains the dialogue and a button for the test to interact with um so i can see that one but it sounded like i saw something in the discord like there's an inline way to do it in in v test or something um just to like for your test have a little fixture in line there um could make but i think that's separate than from the multi-file multi-component file discussion because that would be inside a test file yeah that's true right all right do you guys want to talk about the the big happening of the of the year so far until the next one yes do you do yeah exactly do you know what it is it's obviously svelte summit spring everyone's talking about it yeah yeah it's

 All over Twitter. It's gone down in history. It was a lot of fun. And there weren't any, oh, wait, there was one technical issue with the audio. And some spambots. Oh, there were spambots. You can't blame that one on me, right? No. That's not my fault. I thought it went really well for, like, historical spelt summits. Yeah, yeah. I actually, I did, yeah. It's because it's now on one of these things. Before I had to actually put it on the desk. So now we can just leave it here. For those of you on audio, he just raised his mic arm into the camera. Yes, yes. That's some good context there. Accessibility, right? Yeah. Accessibility. Kev is looking downwards. Kev with headphones on. We're going to narrate the rest of it. yeah yeah so with just a chair sorry i'm done the writing now are you uh are you the uh the subtitles for for movies you know the the square bracket ones yeah yeah basically wind rustles yeah no uh but in in all seriousness it was uh it was a lot of fun um it was probably one of the the better felt summits i'd say um super nice talks it went smooth no issues other than the bots and uh yeah which uh which talks did you guys like the most britney you can't pick your own i was just breathing a sigh of relief to get that one out and over with because the secret could not be kept anymore yeah yeah i think my favorite one was like uh the motion one penguin did and there were a couple of really good ones yeah and like i think for for me like there were a couple of ones that had really nice production value so the monogram one was really nice the raster yeah that one yeah the one with the cool music in the background and the i got chills yeah it was good it was good it's really nice and it also kind of stayed with the with the pink and super dark blue colors as well in a way but yeah that one was good but then also the the Burt the the one that Burt made the one with the silly The excellent production values for the opposite reason Exactly exactly Oh, yeah. That was so funny. Like, throwback to the 80s. Yeah, that one was incredible. It was so good. Like, I love the fact that he put on, like, the... Like, he actually filled himself sitting in the chair, and he, like, showed the chair as well. with the horrible green screen shining through. And then he's like, keep looking back as well on the code that he put. So good. So if anyone's listening to this and you haven't seen the Svelte Summit talks, you should definitely go check them out. They'll be uploaded separately as well starting next week, so that'll be fun. And yeah. Anthony which one which one did you did you like have you watched I have you were I have to admit yeah I was away so I have to admit I haven't had a chance to watch them yet I've been back to back since I was away what was more important than Svelte Summit well you know I'm offended I only get to see my parents about three times a year right now so I kind of had to take a few fair enough Svelte Summit's only two times exactly I was just going to say that everything froze up then so I missed the joke oh yeah so i can listen to the podcast and then i'll laugh privately yeah the joke was basically spelt summit only happens twice a year oh yeah yeah true i don't have a good comeback for that i thought the uh the async store one was also pretty cool and i like definitely worth a rewatch um i think i was talking with you kevin in the meatball but like i'm curious how much of that is taken care of by svelte kit and then if there's anything that SvelteKit could do to make some of those patterns easier. Yeah. Yeah, so that one was interesting to me. I felt like there were so many this time that I need to go back and watch to learn something when I am in the right mind frame. Yeah, the custom store one was... I think I sewn out two-thirds, and I was like, no, I'm not going to be able to do this right now. My brain is full. yeah yeah speaking of of meatball what did you guys think was it was it fun yeah i uh i mean so i a natural introvert so i was a little nervous going into it Like ah meeting strangers But yeah I had a really good time I met two people and then started with a third, and then it abruptly stopped. So I don't know who they were. Yeah. Oh, yeah, they were complaining about the abrupt ending. Yeah, it was a bit short as well. I think we could have probably used some of the lunch break for that. But last time we did that, people complained because they wanted to go actually have a break, which makes sense. And it could be too long, too. At the same time. Yeah. You don't want it to be the other way. I made a mistake. I saw the lunch break, and you said top of the hour. And so I was, like, planning to come back. And then someone came to work on my house. And I went outside, and this person was just super chatty. And I'm, like, looking at my watch. I'm, like, I got to get back in. And I got back in with, like, five minutes left. I met one person in Chicago and then it ended. I was like, no, but it was great. Yeah. So, so I think, I guess we can explain what meatball is for those that don't know what it is. Yeah. So it's, it's basically a, uh, uh, how would you describe it? Like a meeting service where you, you all go to this one link and then you get paired up one-on-one and you get to chat on video with some other attendees. So it's a super fun way to meet other people. I do want to use that again, definitely, and probably make it a bit longer, maybe like 10 minutes longer. And also I ask my friend. So my friend is the one that's been building this service. So that's why I get to use it for free. That is a really neat service. It is. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So I've asked him to build something that lets the host end the session in a more, how would you call it, a nicer way, rather than just turning it off for everyone. Yeah, like a 90-second countdown or something. Sorry, Anthony, what did you say? I was just saying, have you asked him to write it in Svelte? I have. There's a running... So the way it works is you get presented with a question at the start that you're supposed to answer. And one of the questions was, uh, should a meatball rewrite this in Svelte? Um, yeah. So we always put that one in because it funny and action and he going to yeah there a question about actions I like Oh that I know who put that one in It was me Oh yeah the quiz Oh, the quiz. I'm still mad at you for not picking developer experience. I was like, what? It was, yeah, it was fun. I actually threw it together pretty quickly, and I decided to not make it too serious. but no one got anything I didn't realize we were picking your choices I thought this was in general the community I thought it was objective nope well it is objective from my point of view it's the right answers exactly that seems reasonable yeah I think that's it Svelte Summit fall is coming up we did a raffle for people that bought tickets before the conference ended. So one of those people get to go to the speaker dinner, which is cool. Did you choose that yet? No, not yet. I was going to do it this week or next week. I don't feel like I'm in that much of a hurry to do that bit. I'm thinking a bit about how to do it transparently. What do you guys think? Should I just do a live stream and just have the first names and then do a math.random? I think that would be a good promo for it. Yeah, like have the site out. Once you release the site and release the site and have a big live stream where you're like, and this person's going to win, take it to the dinner. That's a good idea. I'll do that. All right. Anything else? Or do you guys want to move into unpopular opinions? I always want to move into unpopular opinions yeah all right all right go ahead Anthony what's your I don't have any I just I just want to be there that's just not true and you know it I mean I know it everyone knows it you just can't come up with on that at the moment I just need I just need a minute to read Twitter and I'll gather a collection filter through them I tried to do that because I didn't have one either and so i was trying to go through twitter to find the tweet with the worst ratio and be like this is my opinion this is my this is my opinion and i hold it dear i do have one um excellent let's hear it yeah i mean so i i touched on this a little

 but already, but I think web components are cool. Oh, that is controversial. Yeah, that is controversial. I think it's unpopular or popular, depending on what community you're in. Nope, just unpopular. Yeah, no, but for the purpose of this. Yeah, I mean, I see the criticisms against them. Do you know why it is, though? Do you know why it's unpopular? Because the API stinks. It's because they're rubbish, yeah. Oh, it's unpopular because it's not true. Yeah, well, yeah. No, I mean, I see the criticisms and, you know, Rich Harris has made plenty of valid arguments. I don't think he's wrong about any of it. But I just think, one, the idea of a component built into the web platform is cool. I wouldn't use them for everything, but I think they do have some valid use cases. Like I mentioned, very compelling if you have a bunch of different frameworks and you need to deliver something that works in all of them. Even with the downsides, like that just has a lot of value not having to rewrite your component multiple times. shadow dom is tricky, but also it's also cool that you have something that can actually scope CSS completely. Um, which then you have the problem that you've scoped your CSS completely, but, uh, still cool. Um, and then also I just think they're, they're neat for progressive enhancement. Um, you know, if you have a mostly HTML site and you just want to throw in that little bit of interactivity, um, a web component can be a great way to do that. And it lets you, you can even put them in markdown because like it's an html tag you don't have to use a mdx or md specs you can just throw a web component in there and it works yeah i think i think like a lot of those were my reason for using svelte because i didn't want to use web components i also had to support i11 and stuff like that or whatever it wasn't supported um but it's because i could just build a little thing in svelte and then deploy that on its own as a function but it doesn't handle the styling it doesn't handle the scoping of CSS I mean it does to an extent but not enough so yeah I can see there's definitely use cases for them yeah doesn't change my opinion that much I think they're cool, I just think the API is so horrible that no one wants to use them and that's why Lit and some of the other things exist well yeah is that one? or might be one but the argument is always that you need something else to build them, which for me is like, that kind of answers the question, are they good? No, because you need something else to build them for you anyway. Yeah I mean that true but the wrapper libraries aren that big um sure yeah so i could argue then anthony like uh is html bad because you need something else to build it you don't like you can just write html well you you know what i mean like i i yeah i understand but you could i could happily write some stuff in vanilla javascript html right it's not a problem um i i don't fancy writing a web component from scratch because i've seen the api and it's it's big and unwieldy. All right. I've never actually tried my hand at writing one without any help. I don't think a lot of people write them from scratch. No. And that should be a big sign. Right. Yeah, exactly. You can't write them from scratch. They're just too much. It's too much. I came up with an unpopular opinion. I remembered one. so i listened to this felt radio podcast with the other rich the rich harris who mentioned something about the jam stack at the end that kind of got my gears turning and i think the jam stack is still valid it's still cool and i think the community is thriving there and we are becoming better and evolving with the web so i think there's still validity to the jam stack and it may be unpopular because of the rich Harris love i don't actually remember what you said yeah i think uh i think jamstack is just a website with a cool name just a website with a cool name well i think because it started out as this static like thought that it had to be static generated that now that it's evolving with the web and becoming more hybrid, but it's become more like this serverless functions, putting things out on the edge. I think that's becoming more of what the Jamstack is. And I still think there's room there. Yeah, I guess time will tell. I'm sure there's room. I mean, there's room for WordPress on the web. Yeah, right. I don't see it dying. Just evolving. WordPress is growing. I don't even understand how WordPress is still growing. Oh, that's my unpopular opinion. You found it. I got one. It's it. And it and my yeah can I say my unpopular opinion now Yes go for it So my unpopular opinion is that the only the only use case of WordPress is for building a blog And the reason I say this is because I can see that WordPress is used in many places because what will happen is somebody will come and approach a freelancer or whatever. And they'll say, I need a WordPress site. And that freelancer will go, I can do that for you. I have WordPress skills. I'll build this site on WordPress. the solution the freelancer is not being offered a problem to solve they're being offered a solution they're being handed a technical solution i.e wordpress by a non-technical person wordpress is a blogging platform it can do like sites landing pages applications you name it can do whatever if you're happy with whatever being just shoehorning stuff into a blogging platform and trying to hide all the stuff that makes it a blogging platform such as the stupid search categories dates and times authors all that stuff right technically anything can be an anything if you are happy to spend time overriding all the stuff that makes it the kind of the thing that it is in the first place but ultimately wordpress is a blogging platform and my controversial opinion is that wordpress should only be used for blogs i don't know if that's not i don't even know if you should use it for blogs well i mean that's another story like i agree there's definitely better blogging platforms now too but if somebody comes to me and the answer is wordpress then they've asked me for a blog for anything else there are sites that can be built with with limited skills even using many of the uh different available things there are today i think that the problem is non-technical people come with technical solutions because they've heard that that's what they need and it's absolutely the the freelancer whoever it's going to be the company the agency it's their job to say your problem is this you're trying to solve x and the solution is y not the solution is wordpress let's build a wordpress site and i think that's why it's absolutely everywhere on the internet is because people aren't pushing back and saying how about you let me deal with the technical side and you know i'll solve your problems i think there's also the uh another reason and that's the the authoring experience i mean there are other options for it but people are used to it probably is yes yes there's familiar there's familiarity there's a lot of things like that but i think again that familiarity has grown from uh using it for things that it not designed it was never originally designed to be i don believe that all these people who are familiar to maintain their landing pages with wordpress are familiar because they used to have blogs in 1998 I just don believe that right Right no yeah They're used to sites that have been built with WordPress as their botch job CMS, and they're happy to carry on botch jobbing their website with it because they're institutionalized. So my unpopular opinion is that the new authoring experience in WordPress is probably not as bad as you would think. Is the HTML output as bad as I think? Because I think it is. I don't know. I was making a bad joke. I love how all of this came out of Jeff's because he was the only one with an unpopular opinion and then we all just riffed off that. Is the Svelte Summit site actually built on WordPress? Is that what you're trying to tell us? No comment. No, it's actually open source. You can actually go check it out. it's a regular old SvelteKit site and it uses Sessionize as the as the backend or the API for CFPs and stuff. You know, WordPress people built the Ghost CMS as well, right? Like they were all PHP developers and they decided to try their hand at Node and they built... I did not know that. I think it's called Ghost. I believe, I understand that as well. Yeah, Ghost. And you can tell it's kind of been written by a team who didn't know JavaScript at the level they needed to when they wrote it. It's a big monolith. It's really, really hard to manage. It's really hard to host. They ripped out the only good feature was that you could install it as a node module, and they deprecated that. So now you've got to have a full site running on Ghost, which is a blogging platform. You really seem to dislike blogging platforms. I like blogging platforms if I have a blog. they're the perfect platform in fact i'll do that all right yeah cool so we have our we are unpopular picks out of the way popular picks and we're into popular picks yes popular picks okay yeah i'll go first i'll go first so i'm super excited because yesterday i went to a concert for the first time in years. So I got to see a band called The Wombats. They're like an indie pop, Brit pop kind of band. Pretty good. I like them. And The Venue,

 Oh, I really liked the venue. They had boomer seats. So that's basically seats in the back where old people like me can sit and have a beer while all the young kids stand in the front and yell, you know? Super nice. And they were even elevated, so you could see everything. Oh, that's nice. It was just the best. I had such a blast. Did you say it was outside or is it inside? No, it was inside. Oh, okay. Yeah. Yeah, pretty, pretty small venue. It's like, I'm sure there are lots of venues that has boomer seats, but. Boomer seats. Well, it kind of makes sense, right? Yes. Yes. That does make sense. I'm not like one of those people that get crazy at concerts. You know the type. I guess there are multiple types. And nothing against those. Yeah, exactly. Nothing against those people. I'm just not one of them. All right. So that's my pick. Concerts. go to them after covid it's very nice nice um my pick is house cleaners we just had cleaners come back to our house for the first time in two and a half years however long it's been and it is so nice to just walk around and everything is clean and i did not have to do it yeah i'm sure that that saves a lot of time it saves so much time and they were here like four hours and it would have taken me like 10 to do the level of cleaning Yeah Or more I don know Professionals are so efficient. They are. Yes. My only knit at them is that they didn't put things back the way they were. So like our shower heads, they left on our arm, like the body sprayer. Oh, yeah. And it flooded my bathroom. My kids turned it on and it was just spraying with the arm out into the bathroom. Oh, no. So that's my only bad part, but just make sure your stuff's back. I do like house cleaners. I think having a cleaner is a great service, but I do have to say that they broke my sink. They broke my plug hole in my bath. They destroyed my slippers. My cleaner used to wear my slippers while she cleaned. What? I don't know. There's a longer story there somewhere, but we haven't got time today. Being an unpopular opinion. Yeah, it's like an improper opinion. My wife now will not have a cleaner. And so that's the problem because I'm not cleaning. Yeah, I don't have time to clean. All right. That is a problem though. My other pick is the developer experience blog that Sarah Drasner wrote. And if you've ever wondered what developer experience or relations or advocate, what any of that means, this does a great job of explaining that and how it works at Netlify. And they do like engineering rotations so that you keep up on your like technical skills And I think it a really good explanation of that which has confused a lot of people Yeah Developer avocados is the term I use because it more fun It's also why people use the avocado emoji for advocates. Ah. Yeah. All right. Jeff, Anthony, do you guys have one? My pick is video game music, which is what I listen to all the time while coding. It's great. It's instrumental. there's a lot of variety a lot of strong melodies um so that is my go-to coding music in particular i've been listening to a lot uh the soundtrack to kirby in the forgotten land like most things it's not a game i've played but it makes great uh coding music that's cool i don't think i've heard that i'm gonna have a listen um my pick is is definitely the weirdest one then as usual um my pick is i have really bad hay fever um i have like industrial strength prescription medication for it which this year for some reason hasn't really worked um so i'm still suffering quite a lot strength well it's like it's like the the de facto h1 inhibitor whatever you call it it's it's strong and it should really solve everything but it doesn't quite um i'm sure it's making an improvement but the red light device which is a very odd if you've noticed someone before um it uses red light therapy so that what it means is it fires like red light up your nose or your nasal passages, which in itself can suppress the cells that create histamine so you become less allergic Some years I just use this and it solves it once in the morning once at night two minutes each time and it just solves my hay fever. And it's one of those things that I thought there's no way this works, but I was desperate. I was like, I'm going to buy this thing. And it does actually work by some magic. And it's also kind of, I'll demonstrate because no one can see this, but it's like Rudolph. Oh, that sounds scary and funny at the same time. it's very odd yeah so for those of you just listening i guess that's everyone anthony just uh pushed like some weird thing with two plugs up his nose and it and turned it on and turned it on my nose goes red shone red yeah rudolph it's like rudolph yeah like rudolph so yeah it's one of those things that just bizarrely works um and then i just can't explain That's cool. Nice. At least it works. All right. Sometimes. Yeah, cool. We did it with three minutes to spare. We did. Yeah. Jeff, thanks for coming on. You're welcome back anytime. It was great to be here. Yeah. I guess we'll see you, hear you, all of the other listeners next time. I've forgotten how to end a podcast. So, well, goodbye, everyone. Thanks for listening, and we'll see you next week. Later.