 Welcome to Svelte Radio. Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of Svelte Radio. I am in the Big Apple once again doing a bunch of interviews. And today I'm here with a guest, Timothy, I think, or Tim. Yeah, you can call me Tim. All right, all right. All right. You never know. So I'm here interviewing Tim. He has a really cool, I don't know if you would call it a project or a bunch of collection of projects. It's called SampleKit. Most people probably haven't heard about it because it's kind of gone under the radar or whatever you call it in English. I never posted it anywhere, so you probably have not heard of it. Yeah, and you were mentioning earlier Willow found it. So that's Ghost for those that are in the know in the Svelte community. Yeah, so I thought maybe we could start a bit about talking about your background. How did you find Svelte? And we'll get to SampleKit in a bit, but let's start with the background. Sure. Who are you? So I am. I'm Tim Cohen. I'm a Svelte enthusiast, and I write bespoke applications here in New York City using SvelteKit. and I am also the creator of SampleKit, which I guess we'll talk about in a little bit. And how did I find Svelte? So it's a bit of a circuitous journey. I'm happy I ended up here, but I started, so my background's in physics, but that was over 10 years ago. And I worked for a couple years as an applications engineer for a photonics company. And then in my early 20s, I had Wanderlust, So I wanted to travel and I ended up switching careers so that I could find work abroad more easily and traveled for a bit and fast forward through that part of my life which is not related to Svelte And about three and a half years ago I guess during the pandemic I was thinking what do I want to do with my life Like a lot of people, I think, during the pandemic. And I really missed the problem solving that I get from coding now. But I thought, oh, I'll go back into physics and try and learn some stuff and try and go back into that career. So I ended up taking an intro to computer science course. It was Harvard X's CS50 or whatever, and I fell in love with it. I really like coding. It's just the most fun job I've ever had. So I blew through that course and fast-forward another nine months or so. I was doing a course by Wes Boss, JavaScript 30, and I heard Scott Talinsky talking about writing his app. He was like starry-eyed talking about how a bunch of love spelt. and he was rewriting his whole app so I'm like alright I'll just check it out because I only knew React at the time and yeah I loved it I found Lee Hao on YouTube and then he's such a charismatic person and a great teacher so I was just watching those YouTube videos and then are you specifically thinking about I guess he did a bunch of videos he did Housefelt Works which is so fascinating and he's just so charismatic that he could probably be talking about anything with Svelte. He's a great guy. That's how I got into Svelte. Then I got lucky enough to... I focused a lot more on Svelte than on React. I was lucky enough to get some contract work using SvelteKit right when SvelteKit came out. I kind of got my foot in the door that way. I'm kind of indebted to Svelte too for letting me change careers and do something that I really like. So how come you picked, so you mentioned React, but how come you picked Svelte over one of these? For the means, no. No, because... I mean, totally legit reason. Yeah, I guess, so at the time, I had only spent probably about a year in not only web development, but software in general. and I had done the Odin project so I had learned the foundations What the Odin project The Odin project is a way to learn web development It taught by web developers I guess It just taught by people in the business And it's a phenomenal project. It's really thorough. But yeah, it just teaches you HTML, CSS, and JavaScript and the ecosystem like Node. And I think they have a Ruby path as well, or they used to. I don't know if they still do. But yeah, so I learned that. And then when I went to React, it was great. I mean, it's good. React is... It's fine. It's great. It's fine. Correct. But I really, I just liked working with the DOM more just because it felt more natural. And yeah, it just felt better. All right. I mean, I totally agree. So I used to do React work a couple of years ago. And then I found Svelte in like 2019 and just like switched, like canceled all my consulting. I meant to start a site called Svelte School, which would be a course website, basically, for Svelte content. I started the podcast, and then Svelte Summit. Thanks for that, by the way. I've learned a bunch from this. That's great. That's how you found Svelte. You mentioned the CS50 computer science course thing, because that's also open and free, right? Yeah, it's a MOOC. Ah, right, MOOC. MOOC, whatever that stands for, multi, I don't know, online course. Massive something, something. It's a MOOC. So yeah, it's by HarvardX, and it's a really great introduction, and it's very engaging. They do it in the Harvard Theater or whatever, so they do it almost like a performance. It's so good, and I was hooked on that. I marathoned through it night and day for two weeks or three weeks or whatever, and that's how I got into software development. Just compared to 10 years ago, the difference in the amount of educational content out there, not just about web development, but anything. You can learn anything now. Yeah, it's amazing. It's great. I kind of yeah I wish I had that when I did my university degree because there were so many things where i didn really fully get it from the professor or something and you know i have to go through multiple books and it just like you know it was like i actually did have a i had a c++ course for my physics degree this is like 14 years ago or something and i remember like thinking what the hell is this visual studio thing what is this bloated thing and i don't understand anything and And so I consider my start of software development three and a half years ago because I learned nothing back then. But if I had YouTube, even, or people like Lihao or whatever, then, yeah. And it's so much easier to find content that works for you as well, right? Not everything works for everyone, so I think it's really nice. I took a look here at that Odum project thing, and it looks great as well. Yeah, it's really good, and it's a very long project. So you can do it as long as you're still getting stuff out of it. That's what I did. And then once I felt like I was pretty confident, then I just started building stuff. And yeah. No, that makes a good sense. Good entryway, I think. I'll definitely be recommending that to people. All right. So that's your background. Now let's talk about SampleKit. So first off, what's with the name? Yeah, so the name is naming things as hard as possible. art, right? So I just needed something that sounded like SvelteKit, because it was originally intended to be just for SvelteKit, and it still kind of is. And I wanted it to be samples, like sample code that you can just look at and kind of like a show me, don't tell me kind of thing, where you just look in the repo, you see how to do it, and then you can take it, so like sample and kit, and then I just threw them together. All right. That's the limit of my creativity. Well, nowadays with AI, you could probably use that to come up with all sorts of weird stuff. But, yeah. All right, so it's a collection of things. Yes. I think we said. So it's preprocessors. That's not a very common thing to write for stuff, I think. I don't know. Yeah. Maybe. I found, so I know like Melt UI uses them for, or they used to, I don't know if they're going to for the Svelte 5 rewrite. I haven't actually seen that branch, so I don't know. But I found out.

 about the preprocessors through that. And there's also Svelte Put, I think, is a collection of preprocessors. And MD Specs is also a preprocessor. So yeah, SampleKit is a few different things. But the first one is the preprocessors, like you were mentioning. And it's kind of an alternative to MD Specs with the pros and cons. So basically what it is, is you can write markdown, math, and code highlighting in your Svelte component, and you have HTML comments and specific delimiters. And because you're using an HTML comment, you can embed whatever you want inside your Svelte code, and all of the tooling just pretends like it doesn't exist. You have your own little domain where ESLint has no jurisdiction over this part of your code. So it has different trade-offs from something like MDSpecs where it's a completely different language, right? Yeah, it's interesting you mention the use of comments here. So I'm currently doing some consulting for a company that they're moving from a Knockout code base. So Knockout is like a, I don't know if you know about it. It's like the old school. It's like a very, very old JavaScript framework. And they use HTML comments for control flow logic. Oh, for control flow? Yeah, so if, else, e. Oh, interesting. Like iterating over an array or stuff like that. And it becomes quite a mess when you have to look at the comments and you have to download this special. So do they have syntax highlighting for the comments? Yeah, so you can get syntax highlighting for the comments. but it's still like, my brain is so used to seeing, if you see the start of a comment, you're like, oh, this is a comment, I'm not going to. But with the syntax highlighting, it helps. So every preprocessor is two things. It's the NPM package and then the corresponding TextMate grammar extension for VS Code. Because if it was all comments, I would lose my mind. I'm spoiled in the new age of web dev. I need my TypeScript and I need my syntax highlighting I need my IntelliSense Yep totally get it I a spoiled man But yeah it looks very cool You mentioned you weren't much of a designer, but I don't know, this looks... It's Tailwind. It's Tailwind and Radix. It's a good base, I guess. Yeah, they make it kind of easy. I've definitely gotten better. So I'm only a little over three years, three and a half years in web development, but I'm inching towards getting better at design. Yeah, but that's a completely different field, right, in a sense. I mean, obviously you can get good at both, but it's tough. All right, so that's the preprocessor. Are you planning on building any other preprocessors? Do you have other ideas that you want to have? I only built those three because those are the only three that I need. I actually don't, when I'm writing, for example, if I want to write an article or something, I actually don't really like writing it in Markdown because I feel like I'm handicapped. I just want my HTML, but I'm spoiled and I want my Svelte. So I only did code highlighting and math because those are the things that I wanted. and then markdown is... The preprocessors, two of them, are extremely simple. They just check. They use the Svelte parser. They check for the comment. And then once they're inside that Svelte comment, they check for the delimiters. And then they just take everything out, put it through some NPM package, and then put it back in. So as far as Svelte is concerned, it's already that package's content. So I actually don't really have any plans for anything else. but it's so easy. Like the concept is really easy to create another thing. You just wrap an NPM package. And then for the code highlighting, I just spent more work because I wanted to be able to do things like add an arbitrary class to an arbitrary line or, you know, an index or something like that. So I needed to pass in the config inside my delimiter. So that's the only one that's a little bit more complex. But yeah, the concept is easy. So if anyone wants to make more, yeah. Easy enough. Easy. Just have to make the... That's probably one of those concepts in Svelte and SvelteKit where, or I guess Svelte, there's not that much information out there, specifically preprocessors right Yeah But it not like when you go into it it not that complicated right No not at all yeah It like a single file for one of them I think it like 150 lines And then you've got, the hard part is the syntax highlighting. Because text make grammar, writing it in JSON is awful. Regex in JSON is an abomination. Regex in general. Yeah, in general, with this specific flavor that they use and having to write it in JSON. So you have to escape everything, and it's actually many-marish. Like backslash. Yeah, you have six backslashes in a row, and you've lost your mind. What am I reading? Yeah. All right. So other than preprocessors, there's also the demos. Yeah. So what's that, you mentioned before we started recording it, it's like a way for you to just go into and grab some examples of stuff and use it in projects, I guess? Yeah, so when I first started, when SvelteKit was pretty new, I wanted to do auth, obviously. I needed auth for a client. And there's so many different things you can do. There's so many packages out there, and then there was Usha at the time when it was actually a package. And I started doing that, but the API kept changing and then I was just like, I just want to know how to do this and keep it all in my own code, right? Obviously you still want to use NPM packages for your hashing and solving. Yeah, for sure. But the flow of your password reset and stuff, like the endpoints and stuff, I feel like a package is worse than just having it copy and paste into your code and then having like... Because you always have to modify it. Yeah, exactly. To like fit the specific case. Yeah, exactly. So there's that and there's like CapRover, like how to deploy on your own private server. That's interesting that you're using CapRover. That's something I learned from Svelte Society. I saw it on... Oh, really? On one of the ARs. Stanislav, I think his name is? Oh, yeah, Chromov. Yeah, Stanislav, yeah. Yeah, he did a video. It's been a really long time, so I might get the details wrong, but I think it's like an hour long video of him just like doing it. And, um, yeah it great for personal projects It phenomenal I really liked it So yeah I to use it as well on his recommendation actually So he also lives in Stockholm so I know him personally But then I've moved on to Coolify, which I prefer. I've heard of such a thing. It's a bit more complicated, or maybe not complicated, but a bit more advanced. You have things like preview builds and stuff built in, so you can just connect a repo. Then if you open a PR to the project, it just builds a new version of it and stuff like that. I do that. I have GitHub Actions. That's another option, right? It's just that Coolify does it for you. That's nice. It's like a little Vercel kind of thing. Yeah, exactly. But free and not super expensive. yeah I think I'd still use like Netlify or Vercel or something else if I was working on like a big team just because it just gets easier and you don't have to worry about all the different branches and everything but for smaller projects and especially personal projects I feel like CapRover or maybe even Coolify are really good options any of these options that do similar things are probably great there's also Doku, there are a bunch of them yeah there's the CapRover stuff I see also here you have AWS and e-commerce. That's another thing which I feel like is often, the Svelkit documentation is really good. We were saying this off-air, but it's really good, and then it just lets you off. Draw the owl. Yeah, exactly. You just get left off with a big world of web development. It's really hard for people like me who are just trying to teach themselves and learn everything. So I feel like AWS is one of those things where you kind of have to know just the basics of how it works because even if you don't use it directly you're probably using service which uses it or like a an s3 uh yeah compatible sdk that but for another serve like yeah so that's i just have i don't even so that one i think is just like uh how to get like a token for an upload and then yeah how to upload it but basically just like how that would look in your spell kit um like library and then you know your routes how they would handle that and how you have like multi like states like different states for your front end code where you can just like go between all of your different states and yeah yeah update the ui and stuff so

 Yeah, just another kind of like, how do I do this thing? Let me just copy and paste some code kind of thing. I guess it's also, for me, something like this, like writing these demos would also be a way to learn, right? And it's also a way of documenting what you're doing. That's how I learn, actually, is by trying to explain it, even to myself. I always have a rubber duck folder in each repo, and I have it as my global git ignore, and I'll literally just try and explain things to myself. Oh, that's interesting. I have a physical rubber duck. Actually, two of them. I've got to get one of those. But it's better to write it down than talk to a duck, I think. I don't know. It could be good for both. I'll invest in a nice rubber duck. I can highly recommend it. So there's also e-commerce? Yeah, that's like how to hook up a Shopify. because Vercel has one for Next.js and Svelte Society did one with Medusa. I think Brittany interviewed someone with Medusa. Yes, yes. And so I just wanted to add that in there for Shopify. So like how you would, you know, just make what interface you would need for your front end and then how you can implement that using Shopify's API. Because I feel like a lot of people use Shopify. Shopify is big. Like it's probably one of the biggest, I guess the only no, I do wonder if it's like the biggest e-commerce platform either that or WooCommerce? Yeah, exactly I always hear about Shopify but maybe I don't know I don't know either Cool, demos are you planning on doing more demos? Yeah, definitely have to do more demos because another thing is WebSockets you can do web sockets in spell kit but I didn't know how the first time I wrote an application for a client and I'm like I had to do I had people who were negotiating on something and I needed some way to do real time chat and I didn't know how I'm going to do this because I didn't know how to use web sockets and I couldn't find documentation for it and then you realize oh spell kit is serverless first so I can't use web sockets out of the box there yeah there like multiple options you could wrap if you use a node server you can wrap your node server and have like an io socket whatever and just put that in a global reference on global this and you can call it there are multiple options and they like pusher and stuff so i feel like i sure maybe someone's done that i'm sure people have done that but i couldn't find it when i was looking for it so i think i'm not sure actually like it maybe someone has done that but i'm sure someone has done it but not like publicly put it out there yeah and I feel like that's such a foundational thing now so it should be like SvelteKit should have some kind of documentation or even if it's not official docs have like something on Svelte Society I mean you're very welcome to write an article for Svelte Society it's interesting with WebSock it's like I'm a huge like I really like Elixir and Phoenix. I don't know if you've heard about it. Only heard about it. I've never tried that. Phoenix is the web framework for Elixir, which is a programming language. The idea is basically that all the state lives on the server for every client. Nothing really lives in the web browser. But then there's a web socket that just sends diffs back and forth to the server. to and forth from the server. So it makes it really easy to build things like real-time collaboration and stuff like that. It's such a cool framework. Yeah, that's a great idea. I feel like it wouldn't work well with backends for frontends, though, like Svelkit and Next.js. That wouldn't work. The thing is, Elixir is built on Erlang, which is like this programming language that was built by Ericsson back in the 90s and it's built for telecommunications basically. It's meant to be like a super resilient network that if one node goes down, it doesn't bring everything else down. Because that's kind of the case now with, if you error your node process, it's just going to crash and everything and it stops working for everyone. And so it has all this stuff built in where communication between nodes is very simple. You can just send messages to all the nodes in a very simple manner. It's very, very cool. There a great talk by Sasa Juric I think it called that I can recommend That very very very very nice One of the best tech talks that I seen honestly So if you're interested in going outside the Svelte or the SvelteKit ecosystem, I would highly recommend that one. It's a problem. My queue of things that I want to learn is infinite, pretty much. I'll add that to the end of the queue. Put it at the start. Okay. No. All right. so you have the demos yeah so are you planning on doing more of these demos? do you have any plans? yeah other than maybe the WebSockets yeah I have like a few different branches that I started months ago and I just haven't had the time to do them I have to think about I'm sure it's going to be like one of those I need it for a client I might as well do a demo for it kind of thing. Exactly, yeah. Or like, I don't know this, and I just found it, and I'm really excited to talk about it, and I just want to. Yep, totally. All right, what about articles? That's the third. Yeah, articles. So they're just like good old-fashioned articles, and the first one I wrote was because, like, Spellkit is really great for type safety between your, like when you have your load function is automatically typed right and also server uh the um the form actions and i use super forms and that's yeah super forms yeah it's it's an amazing experience but then when you do when you fetch from your client code to your server code it's like yep the kid gloves are off and you're back to no type safety so i one of the first things that i did was just like make a little wrapper around it and I ended up using the kind of super forms, loading and delayed API kind of thing. So you have like a state of where it's at and you get type safety. And the cool thing about that is that you can define your client code, your fetch call directly next to your server because you have like your .server.ts. Yeah, plus server.ts. And then next to it, I'll usually have a client.ts and then I just export the, I have like a little wrapper around it. So I just wrote an article about that because it was something that I liked using. I don't know, and I just wanted to shout to the world. So it like you put it in the same folder as the endpoint that you want to fetch from And then you just import like a pre fetch client It like instead of having a repository of all of your API calls you just have one specific one And you just import it directly from. And the cool thing about that is that if you change the route, like if you're reorganizing because SpellKit is route-based, if you change your server endpoint, well, now you've got to update your client code. But if you have a wrapper which already embeds your URL, and especially because SvelteKit exports the route ID, you can just make that a generic type. You put in your route ID, and then if you change it, then you get a type error for saying, like, hey, your API URL changed. That's pretty smart. Take care of this. There are some things around SvelteKit and how it would be nice to have some typing around routes in general that I feel is missing. There is a package out there that does it for you, I think. So you can, instead of just randomly typing the route, you can just, yeah, you get type safety, basically. I feel like that should probably be built in. Yeah, and the thing that I use is, it's 100 lines or something, but I use it in every project because I feel like I'm such a baby, I need my types. Who is it? I'm so spoiled now, so it would be amazing if that was built in. And I know that, I think, I don't know if it was Rich or someone, but they posted an issue on GitHub saying they wanted to do form actions as well. They wanted to have some kind of type safety with the URLs. Yeah, I have a favorite. So, yeah, it would be nice if there was some kind of pre-made client fetcher that calls your server endpoints. But if you use something like that, you would need to use some kind of validation package like Zod or something. So it might not make sense in the client, in the, uh, yeah, to have it because right. It might be better like something like super forms where it's, uh, where you need that then anyway. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No, for sure. Um, it's, it's, uh, there are a bunch of these like small things that I think are missing in, in Svelte that I would really like to have. One thing I run into a lot is invalidating data partially. Like if you're fetching three or four different things in the load function and then you're like, I just want to invalidate one of those three things that I fetched. That's not possible, right?

 Technically it is because you can nest them in layout groups, which that just makes a mess of everything because you'll have posts slash comments and the parentheses, not regular folders. Yeah, like your route ID and not your actual endpoint. Yeah, it becomes a mess and it's just like, it's not worth it. I'll just invalidate everything. But to be fair, in most cases, that's probably fine. Probably. But in some cases, it would be nice to have a more granular way of doing it. Yeah. I'm very interested to see what they start doing on SvelteKit 3 now that they've put all this effort into Svelte 5. Yeah. Yeah, so there's the, in Vite, there's a new environment API that is coming, which I think is going to be good for SvelteKit. So separating the server bundle from the generation of them into different. I think that's going to help with some other stuff in SvelteKit as well. Yeah, I'm excited to see that because I think Vite has already merged that into. Yeah. I think it's under an experimental flag for a year, I think, so the API might change, but we'll see. I'm excited. All right, so, yeah, and you have a bunch of other articles here, like theme controller, blog with preprocessors, I guess that would be... That explains. That would use the preprocessors. Correct, yeah. Makes sense, makes sense. URL state controller, oh, so you can sync the URL query parameters. Yep, just simple stuff that I feel like everyone uses. This is just my implementation. It's probably not the best implementation, but it's an implementation that you can look at and see how to do it. Especially with Svelte 5. I've rewritten some of them to use runes and other Svelte 5 features, but I don't know that I've rewritten that one. I think, so if you've seen Paolo, he usually does the This Week in Svelte streams on the YouTube channel. Yeah, he's also on the GitHub all the time. Yeah, he did a package for this specifically. Don remember what it is For SvelteKit search programs is what it called called that makes sense probably should have searched for that I mean or you could build it yourself because it's fun yes that's usually how I end up building stuff because I'm like ah there's this package but it would be so much cooler but I could do it too it is it is a lot of fun like writing stuff even even if it already exists like I sometimes you find different trade offs as well. Exactly, trade-offs for sure. Recently I've been going down the rabbit hole of using AI to write stuff, so like XFL kit routes and stuff like that. How's it doing with that? Like if you, so I've been trying a bunch of different AI, I don't know if you've used Only the chat GPTs of the world. Yeah, so I've been using one called Claude Sonnet, which is, I guess, a competitor to open it. And there you can embed text files and stuff so it can reference and use the stuff that you embed. On the Svelte site, there's a slash content.json file, which has all of the documentation in it. So you can take that and you put it in the context of the AI. Yeah, you feed it in there. And then you can ask it to write. The current documentation is too big for putting it in there, so you have to remove a bunch of stuff. But as long as you do that, you're fine, generally. But if you don't put the new documentation in, it's going to give you Svelte 4 and weird old... I don't know if you've used Sapper, but the predecessor to SvelteKit. No, I was after that. And that uses, I guess SvelteKit actually used load functions in the Svelte files during the beta as well. So that's what Sapper did as well. So sometimes you'll get files that are like, oh, here's the context module load function. It's very old. So you have to give it some rules and stuff, but it's fun to play around with. I've used it for admin dashboards where it doesn't really matter what it looks like. I just want the functionality. And it simple stuff like crud stuff right That stuff it can do really well Yeah but as soon as you want something more custom then it becomes tougher Yeah it almost just easier to do it than to try and fix what they did. Yeah, or you can use it as like, write the HTML, give me a starter, I want the sidebar, and blah, blah, blah, and then you modify it a bit. That kind of works as well, but yeah, it's fun. Like recently, for the news, Felt Summit website that's coming in a couple of weeks, The admin dashboard is I decided I wanted to build a super dynamic system where, so I usually use SQLite as my database. And I decided, oh, I'm going to generate sod schemas and JSON objects out of the table structure of the SQLite database. so I have a conference table in there and then I have a talks table and then I have this endpoint that the load function is the ugliest thing I've ever built because it's supposed to be very dynamic I'm not proud of it but it's super super complicated code because it does a SQL query to get out the SQL that was used to create the tables, basically. And then it uses that to pick out, oh, is this field a string or is it an integer and stuff? And then out from that, it generates the SOD schema. Obviously, SQLite doesn't have proper type safety, so it can only do so much. But still a funny, fun and funny, I guess. experiment to try to build. If you've heard of Pocketbase or Firebase, one of those backend service kind of stuff. I guess it's a take on that. Because now I can just create a table in the SQLite database and it just pops up in the sidebar and then I can just add it to that. It's super brittle, though. If I change the naming structure and I have junction tables as well so you have the conference underscore talks that would be like the many to many table for it oh if I didn use the underscore then I wouldn find the It terrible but it fun Okay, side quest there. Anything else that you want to talk about with regards to SampleKit? No, I guess the preprocessor is the biggest thing, and I guess the trade-offs... Are you talking about the trade-offs between MD specs? I don't think so. Okay, so MD specs, you have a whole new language. And I guess I mentioned this already, but the preprocessors here are so that you can still use Svelte and still use the tooling, and you don't have to worry about writing a prettier plug-in that can handle the specs language. Right, right. It just works in that way. Yeah, and so MD specs, or even a unified pipeline might be better if you're using it with content creators or something who can only write in Markdown or something. But yeah, I think that pretty much covers sample kits. Let's talk about Svelte 5 then. I'd love to talk about Svelte 5. What do you think? Is it better than Svelte 4? It's better than Svelte 4. I'm going to say it's 85% 85% of the changes are better and that number is totally made up and has no backing Honestly it sounds about right Yeah 85% I'd say 10% is about the same for me I couldn't care either way and then 5% I'd say there's some little tiny little nits or things that are maybe not as easy or yeah but overall a big big win, I think. Yeah, but probably the biggest change is the reactive statements, right? They're not there anymore. Now it's derived and effective instead. And it's a good thing. Yeah. I personally like snippets. I think snippets are even better than the reactivity changes. The fact that they were able to both replace slots, which, I love slots, They're very good when you have one slot and it's not nested too deep. You don't have multiple defaults or something. But as soon as you have that, it actually confused me. And it was hard, and especially with the let directive. Oh, yeah, like the let directive.

 Yeah, and you're trying to pass it up. You know, when I've used that, I'm looking at it, I'm like, I have no idea what, is it going in or out? I don't know. Yeah, it does feel backwards. And it's like the one part of Svelte which doesn't feel intuitive. So I'm glad they got rid of that. And the fact that they were able to not only replace slots, but give me the other thing that I wanted at the same time, which was reusable code snippets. It's like a knockout API, I feel like. Yeah, it's really good. The only situation where it's, like, not as good as the slot one is, like, if you have one default slot and you do nothing with it. Because it's, like, a bit of an extra, a couple of extra lines. Yeah. I just like having the module expose the slot. Like, expose from the types to say what it needs. Oh, for sure. For me, even if it's a few extra lines, I agree. It is more boiling. It depends on if you're only doing a super tiny component and you just want to pass something. Yeah, like a single. But it's a... Otherwise. Otherwise, 99% improvement on all fronts. There was discussion about doing multiple components in one file at some point internally. But I think the people that looked at it we're like, we like our single file component structure. I prefer it as well. I know other people want the ability to just like... So I was talking to Wes Boss at the conference earlier this week, and he was like, yeah, the only thing I want is multiple components. If you're used to React, then you kind of miss that. It is kind of convenient, but then you also end up with files that are like 1,500 lines long. because maybe not if you're only working on something yourself, but if you're on a team and then it just grows organically over time, and suddenly it's way, way more complicated. And especially if the structure of the components are like you have to jump up and down in the file. I don't know. It's a trade-off. Yeah, it's definitely a trade-off. I think it's the right call for Svelte, but that's a vibes thing. Yeah, no, I agree. I sure there are some benefits to doing multiple components in one file But yeah snips are great I love them What else do you enjoy about Svelte 5 We talked a bit about the migration script. What's your experience on that? So I actually used it. I haven't migrated production code. I've just done it for SampleKit. And I did it before. I did it the day that it came out. So it was kind of buggy. not going to lie. Risky move. Yeah, I mean, but it's like I knew, like I almost wasn't going to do it because I just wanted to do it by hand because SampleKit isn't that big, right? So I can do it by hand and just understand what's going on, but I tried it out and it, you know, it had some errors and it did some weird things like it threw the interface sometimes out of the script tags. Oh, that's weird. It was the day that it came out and it was, I'm not going to judge on that. I know that they've pushed a bunch of commits to that, so I'm sure it's much more robust now. Have you used it recently? Yeah, so I mentioned I'm doing some consulting for a client that are moving from Knockout to Svelte, and then we started a new project where we're using SvelteKit. So currently the application is a Knockout-based application with smaller Svelte components inside of it. And now we're going to switch approach to use a route-by-route conversion. So then we're using SvelteKit, and we started using Svelte 4, and now I just ran, like last week, I just ran the svmigrate command and just like done, basically. I had to change one or two things, and then it just worked. So my experience is great. Did you get imports from Svelte Legacy? We were talking about the run function. Yes. No. So in this project, I mentioned earlier, I don't know if it was on air or not, but I don't really use a lot of effects. Yeah. Or reactive statements, since I rely so much on... The load functions. Yeah. So that was not an issue. Yeah. Another reason not to use effect. Yeah. But yeah, no, the experience is great. I don have anything bad to say about it The run function since I haven experienced it I not sure if it problematic or not I assume it runs like the run function runs That's a weird name for a function. Yeah, it is. It's kind of a general name that doesn't... Why is it not something like old reactive statement? Well, it doesn't even work from legacy, so that's... Yeah, okay, fair enough. But yeah, the name of the function could... Naming things is hard. Yeah. Oh, 100%. Yeah, I also don't really have experience with that because as it transpiled it to run, I just went out and switched it to runes. Because that would be interesting. If you could just run the script and then start the application, would it just work? That'd be great, right? Because then you'd get the benefits of the smaller bundle and all this stuff. But who knows? Probably someone who's tried it. Yeah, and maybe it worked and maybe it didn't. Okay, cool. Any other Svelte 5 thoughts or ideas that you want to mention, or should we head into this? How do you feel about the, like, I had very mixed feelings on the fact that the Svelte 5 compiler wraps the signal, so you can't see it, and it, like, I get the trade-offs. I understand why they did this, and I think that, you know, they made a smart decision. I'm sure they can do some Svelte magic under the hood. If we don't have access to it, we can't meddle with the reference. But sometimes if I have a class and I have a bunch of parameters on it and I'm using it and I'm importing it because now we can have Svelte.ts files and I'm importing it and I can't tell if it's reactive. If I have to use an effect or something and I have a maybe I'm passing some config through, it sanitizes it, and then it spits it out as a parameter on there. And is it reactive? Do I have to untrack it in my effect function? I don't know. I have to click through. I have some good news for you. Oh. Yeah, so I think this is pretty recent, just a couple of days ago or last week maybe. There's a new, you know the inspect room, right? Sorry? The inspect room? Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. So now there's an inspect.trace that you can put inside of an effect, and you'll get a trace of the reactive stuff that are in the effects. Interesting yeah So that probably why they made it because it to make it easier to understand that part of it So for me as I mentioned I don't really use effects that much. So I just like, I don't worry about it. The load functions are so powerful. Yeah, exactly. But as soon as I'm going to write something more interactive, then obviously I'm going to need more of the runes. There are different approaches in general to how different frameworks have done it. I know solid and view, I think, are more explicit in how they handle their signals. It's not hidden, right? I think view, I think you can get a dot value. It's been a while since I used view. Same. I think that's how it works. I prefer the Svelte way. I might be biased. I don't know. I mean, you're very biased. What? But I mean, yeah, I mean, spelt wouldn't be spelt if it was bloated, like, by definition. Right. They couldn't box the reference and then have a dot value on every signal. Yeah, and it's probably like one of those cases where it ends up being, for the vast majority of cases, it's a net benefit. But in the 10% or 5% cases, it's like a hassle. I kind of wish I don't know how they would do this I kind of wish there was just some TypeScript marker on it just a marker for the type so instead of it being a number it would be like a stateful number state number or something but TypeScript will always simplify the type so if it's just a wrapper type I feel like TypeScript is going to be like oh well this is a number it's a state number which is a number so it's a number so I don't know how they would do that But that's one of my little nits of it. But overall, I think it's been pretty good. Yeah. I mean, there's also, speaking of new things, there's also error boundaries that are coming as well. Also something that was talked about last week or two weeks ago. Don't we already have error boundaries? Or is there a new... No, Svelte hasn't had error boundaries. Oh, I'm thinking SvelteKit. Because you can put a plus error. Yes, the plus error. Yeah. So error boundaries are basically a way for Svelte to

 catch unexpected errors. Let's say your fetch on the client doesn't work. It throws an error instead. Instead of crashing the application, you can actually catch it in a boundary. And then you could, I don't know, render a reload application or something like that. So it doesn't automatically go to an error page? Well, so if it's SvelteKit, then depending on what you're doing, If you're throwing an error in SvelteKit, then it would go to the error page. So the error boundary is for Svelte, which means you can use it outside of SvelteKit. So that's also coming. That's very exciting. Something that people in React land have complained about not having, basically. Because it's not nice when your browser client crashes. Yeah, and then your button isn't clicking, and you're like, why is my button clicking? And you go to DevTools, it's like, oh, there are five errors here. That solves this issue, right? Well, it solves it in the sense that you can write logic to work around it. Sure, yeah. It can help you solve it. Yes. All right, cool. Should we head into PIX? Yeah, let's do it. Yeah. Do you have one? Yes I actually was thinking about this before and there this book called Crafting Interpreters by Robert something He works at Google He on the Dartlang team The book is about writing your own scripting language, and it goes through the whole process not once but twice. You actually write it first in Java, and so you have your Lexer, and you have a string, just your code, and you turn it into lexical tokens and then you put it into an abstract syntax tree and then you run it on the JVM. And then the second time you write it, you write it in C. And instead of using an abstract syntax tree, you write it in bytecode. So you have the operands and everything. And the book is phenomenal, not only because the content is super interesting, but the author, he hand-drew all of the illustrations in the book. And it's beautiful. And he has asides where he's actually kind of a funny person. So the book is not even one of my favorite tech books. It's one of my favorite books. I feel like I've got to read it again. But yeah, I would definitely recommend that. It sounds very interesting. I wouldn't even know where to start writing my own scripting. And he takes you through the whole thing twice so you can learn about it It Crafting Interpreters Yep by Robert something By Robert something I put the correct one in the show notes How about you do the pick? That's a tough one. I think I'm going to pick New York. Okay. So since I'm here for the week, so this is my second time in New York, and I, well, actually, maybe I should pick New Jersey. Do it. Pick New Jersey. So last time I was here, as often happens when you're in a new place, you're a bit confused about how things work. You're not used to, I don't know, how the public transport works. Yeah, why it's so sticky on the subway floors. That is also a good question. But this second time around, I feel like I kind of know what's up and how it works. The only thing that's still tripping me up is the tipping situation. Oh, America is so hard with tipping. I never know how much to tip, when to tip, when not to tip. So now I'm just defaulting, just click the screen, which I guess is not ideal in the long term. Like when they flip it around and they stare you in the eyes. Do you want to tip 35 Yeah I had it at a grocery store Welcome to America Am I supposed to tip there I don know At a grocery store Yeah like one of those small bodega style Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, not like Whole Foods or something. But yeah, so I'm going to pick New York. Go here. It's a fun city. It's expensive, but it's nice. It's nice. You have to do it at least once, I feel like. All right. I think that's it for us. thank you for joining me for the interview so where can people reach out to you? you mentioned before that you're not on social media I'm not on social media so actually I'm kind of old school here you can reach me by email I do contract work here with SvelteKit so if you're looking for a Svelte developer you can hit me up my public email is contact at timcohen.dev and use good old-fashioned subject, work opportunity or something, so that it doesn't go to my spam folder. Yeah, that makes sense. Yeah, and I'm Timothy Cohen on GitHub. All under case, no spaces. Cool, all right. Thank you again for joining me. And to all the listeners, you will hear from us next week again. Bye! a lot. Thanks!