 Hey everyone, we're back for another Svelte Radio episode and this time we are the full cast sean britney anthony and myself we're back after the summer summer break summer holiday um and yeah we're we're very excited to get into the to the nitty-gritty of svelte again so what have you guys been up to happy to be back and to have everyone here and yes really happy to be on video and to allow everyone to see our excited faces when you surprise us with your introduction this one wasn't too wild right no it's just always a surprise yeah all right yeah yeah so so since last time uh biont got series a which is amazing yeah congrats yeah and it was three times the size of the average series a in in england at the time which is great because can you tell us what that word is and means series series a you'll have to say it slower maybe series like as in as in series oh series a series a sorry yes yes sorry about my bad you're speaking english i just i should be clearer on a podcast series a it's like the like a funding round okay i'm sorry so so what are you doing with all the money uh well which big parties yachts you know the usual kind of stuff right no actually we are we are being extremely thrifty with it because it's very it was very very hard to guess it took us it took us months and people kept eking extra money and it was really weird um yeah we're basically an international expansion so we've just launched in the US. So we're now, I think we're already 10 people out there in Austin, which is pretty cool. And yeah, we're just sort of doing a sort of more global rollout, which is pretty cool stuff. That amazing Congrats You hired 10 people in the last few months You better believe it Honestly we hire people very quickly We talking sales hires We not doing tech in the US at the moment but we're doing sales hires there. Yeah, we seem to hire good people very quickly, which is surprising given how hard it is. So you're hiring sales in Austin, which Austin is a big tech hub right now too. It is a big tech hub. Yeah, I couldn't tell you why we're doing sales in Austin. We just are. We just built a new office in Austin. Nice. I feel like there's a potential for a meetup in Austin or something. I know. I definitely should go there. We can all fly in. I am going to San Antonio next month, but I don't think that's that close to Austin. Texas is really big. I heard it's big. I've heard. it's like bigger than half of europe i don't know it's not that big but it's it's big it's very big yeah yeah what about you sean what have you been up to you you you're you're living in san francisco now and you we're recording this way too early for you uh yeah so the usual times i have not been able to make them because they're at 6 a.m. my time now but I did move to San Francisco. I have been more or less immersing myself in AI engineering quote-unquote which is a term I am semi making up but also has caught on a little bit in the sense that the podcast that I work on and the newsletter and now the conference that I'm running have all been tuned towards the persona of the AI engineer, which is the software engineer that is building with AI. And that is meant to be a distinct profile demographic than the ML engineer or the research scientist. And yeah, I've been immersing in that for quite a bit. I'm currently back in London, just on a stop, because I'm about to speak at a conference. And even here, I'm meeting a whole bunch of AI engineers and it's been really rewarding I guess and yeah I think that's my update so far yeah yeah that's exciting and you did you did a we did a podcast episode on Svelte Radio about the about the basics or the an intro to AI kind of thing that people should check out if they interested in that Yeah So what have I been doing this summer I have been on a road trip to Norway Well that was the plan anyway. It started raining like torrential amounts of rain, so I had to cancel, go back home, just sit in my apartment. That was fine though. It was nice taking a break. But now they have conveniently started to re... What's it called? They're like redoing the pipes and the sewage system in my apartment complex. So I have no running water. I have no sewage. So that's nice. But yeah. Luckily, we have another apartment that we're living in in the meantime. So that's fine. But it's like a mattress on the floor. it kind of feels like those pictures you see of uh silicon valley people startup people just living in in san francisco they have a tv on a chair and then there's just a mattress on the floor i mean you've seen those pictures you say it's like a match on the floor kev but you are famous on this podcast for being in environments where there is just a mattress on the floor or a chair on the floor or like i don't know nothing is i think it was one time like an empty room um i would I would say that it looks, Kev, a bit like your background always at all times. Well, I mean, this is actually just like an office space where I'm writing a desk. That's different. That's different then. No, because I honestly thought maybe it's a Scandinavian thing that this minimalist gone crazy. But no, I mean, mashed on a floor is de facto. It's not by choice. Like, I would love to not sleep on the floor. Yes. Wouldn't we all? Wouldn't we all? Yeah. Yeah. So lately I've been building the new Svelte Summit website. So that's launching today, which would be a week ago if you're listening to this. It was meant to go out yesterday, but things happened. And yeah, I've been actually rebuilding it. So I'm releasing the new conference site, and then I'm also rebuilding it to be more dynamic so I don't have to update it manually all the time which i should have done like two years ago but better late than never so there's that that that pretty much me when is it sorry when is it so it on november 11th and it on the usual uh url sveltsummit um yeah that yeah you should always plug the dates and yeah no you right you right you're right sveltsummit.com november november 11th cfps are open if you're interested in doing a talk go submit one that's it any any other personal updates or what's been going on lately i think britney hasn't gone yeah yeah i don't know i feel like life's just been crazy summer is always just nuts with the kids like we've been we went to amusement parks we went to a place called cedar point which has it used to have some of the uh the biggest roller coasters in the world But now like we rode the sixth tallest and fastest roller coaster. Got my son on that. But then he chickened out of like the next couple. So he rode two there. And then we went to a more local one a couple weeks later with my younger one. And she got him on like pretty much everything there except for the upside down stuff. But he did like an upside down one there. So I don't know. He's a funny beast, that one. So I'm trying to get him to be briever, but maybe as the little one gets older. Because he's like, I can't let the little girl outdo me on the big roller coasters. So he's like, if she's going to go, I have to go. So, yeah, we had fun this summer. It was our first summer with the pool. So we spent a lot of time in the pool. It's the only nice time here in Michigan, so we didn't vacation a lot. But amusement parks and pool time, it was awesome. I feel like Michigan is kind of like Sweden in that sense, that in the summertime you kind of want to enjoy the place where you live. Exactly. That's true. Just weirdly related to roller coasters, because I used to love roller coasters as a kid as well. I still enjoy them now, the big ones. But swings, I used to really enjoy swings as a kid as well. Swings in a park and stuff, and I was always the one who tried to get over the top and all that kind of stuff. Do you have loops and stuff? well you can you can get if you swing hard enough you can get the you know you get to the anti-gravity stage and then you suddenly go over the top you know you'll get right over the top of it which is probably a bad idea really but there's a kid you know you kid you kid things but what i found is now having my own child who also seems to love swings i sit on a swing next to her and try and swing and i feel physically

 sick like i really feel sick when i swing how when did that happen like i didn't use swings you get old no but that's not that's not fair in your 30s probably at some point like you just got old and you just don't realize it and then you need dramamine to go on the roller coasters now i i'm not so bad um i can still do the loopy ones and i will feel it after a few but my husband he took true germamines while we were there to go on the roller coasters and then after the last one we went on he's like i can't do anymore are there drugs against like it's like anti like yeah motion sickness it's the ones you take for cruise ships and boats no idea yeah yeah i've heard of those i don't i don't get it that's it came on like suddenly no just like when did that happen At what age did I stop being able to use a swing? Mm-hmm. Yeah. When you got old. Well, that's depressing. Anyway. Yeah. All right. So that's some fun updates from folks. We also have some updates on Svelte and Kit, right? Oh. Yeah. So recently we finally managed to get the on Navigate lifecycle hook. I guess you could call it, into Kit. So that means that we can now very easily use the, what's it called, view transition API that's been added to Chrome, which makes it super easy to do page transitions. I guess you could figure it out from the name of the API. Only works in Chrome. I think I read somewhere or heard something about Safari adding it as well, or they are going to add it at least. But we'll see how long that takes. The good thing about it is that it's a really nice candidate for progressive enhancement. So if it's just like a feature flag thing, or you check if it exists on the document, and if it works, it works. If it doesn't work, you'll just get the regular old-style thing where you just get a flash or the content changes. Has anyone tried the transitions API? I haven't. I want to. I think it looks really good and there been a few hacks before that I guess I don fully understand it and I need to understand it first and then use it but it definitely something interesting that I like to try I feel like this needs to prove that people want it enough I think it the kind of thing that designers love because it looks slick, but then if it doesn't seem to actually benefit sites like beyond then why do we have it right i mean obviously i think we have it because you can't really do what this does inside of native javascript you have to have some browser support for it and the apps um like the native apps on mobile apps um have come with it and so i think this is all part of the whole story about the web fighting back against the closed gardens of the native mobile ecosystems because the native mobile ecosystems offer better user experience but i don't know like it's it seems like like it has to prove its value and i don't know what needs to happen for it to go mainstream like you know let's say safari supports it tomorrow i still don't see a whole bunch of people rewriting to add custom transitions but maybe that can just come with some frameworks out of the box right so i guess my response would be that i view transitions when i say that i don't know i don't i need to understand them or i guess what i what i'm thinking here is that i have two sort of destinations for them one would be the the main website like the marketing site and one would be the dashboard i can envisage that flashy transitions are cool on a marketing site but we're actually moving that to wordpress so i can no longer use felt transitions um but on the dashboard i can see it having value um you know because it gives a better user experience more like an app experience but what i don't understand about them especially in the felt ones is how do i give it the contextual information it needs in order to transition from meaningful state a to meaningful state b so if my page has got this div on it and I click that to change page, how does it know that that div becomes a focus or elements of that div or things on screen become the focus and they get transitioned into the next page and everything else gets cleared out and then I have the new page in front of me. That's the bit I'm very unclear on. Yeah. So I think this is mostly done in CSS actually. So you define the divs in CSS and you name a transition name I think that you apply to the element So I'm not sure entirely how much you actually need to do actual JavaScript to get this working. Right, because the JavaScript controls, I mean, I guess the JavaScript controls it would be, you know, the orchestration. yeah but i think that's only if if you have an spa right i think if it's an mpa like it would just work i assume maybe not i i'm not i don't know how it would work an mpa because isn't that like clear the page and reload yeah but that's that's the that's the thing with with these view transitions yeah transitions between actual reloads actual pages and the yeah what really yeah I thought it was view to view page transition API but I thought that but I thought that was like pages as in the virtual pages which SPA is made up of well that's what I thought it was because I can't imagine how you transition smoothly you know request to the server get a new page back in full and I don't know like I said I don't understand it I mean I'm ready to understand it but I don't right now Yeah, I guess we'll have to dive a bit deeper. Deep dive. It's the view transition API. So it's not the page transition. But I think it is between pages. It doesn't currently enable cross-document view transition. Oh, interesting. So that would mean it's not MPA. So it transitions between states in SPAS. Right, that's what I thought it was. because you have to retain the content of the page in some form. Unless you had streaming responses, maybe it would work, but I don't know how that would work even. That's a whole different kettle of dogs. I would think the browser would be able to cache the old page and just check where the different... I just haven't played with these enough. There's something to do with the browser porting it, isn't there? Yeah. Yeah, it's all the browser. Right, okay. Yeah, there's a lot I don't know. You don't know what you don't know, Kev. Yeah maybe we should have Jeffrey on to help us understand this That would sound good Yeah So I guess that what new in Kit And on the Svelte side, we have a lot of Svelte ambassadors talking on Twitter about how they're liking the new Svelte 5 and stuff. That's very cool. I wonder when it's coming. I guess we'll see. Because we can't talk about it. I've heard nothing of it. I've heard nothing of them. No, me neither. What do they know? I know nothing about anything. But let's say the addition of Dominic to the team may or may not have influenced it somewhat. Yeah, yeah, maybe. Maybe. But we don't know. Things may be getting worse. So we should. Yeah. Yeah. Maybe. I wonder if we'll get more magic or less magic. We'll see. I wonder. Yeah. Actually, one thing I did learn about Dominic, that Dominic was apparently one of the, if not the person who decided React Hooks should be called Hooks. That's interesting. Yeah, he was very pivotal in the whole Hooks movement, which is interesting. Yeah. And he, obviously, I think he, I'm going to get this wrong, but he invented Ember? The thing that's faster. The thing, not Ember. I think it's Inferno. Inferno, Inferno. The thing that was always faster in the benchmarks than Svelte. Like behind Vanilla, I think mostly, and then always faster than Svelte. And now like he's in the Svelte column. So what happens there? What happens there, everyone? I think maybe what we can talk about is Rich shared some of the benchmarks for Spelt 5 that came out while we've been away. So, I mean, those benchmarks are very close to Vanilla.js, which are, like, crazy fast. Yeah. Yep. I did see a benchmark that was faster than Vanilla.js. I don't know how that works. There was a one. I saw one that was faster than. like how is that even possible because I mean really it's still vanilla JS under the hood right what kind of incantations are they doing there on the maintainer team

 Some kind of alchemy or something. I think I did see some vials of green liquid and stuff. Yeah. Who knows? But yeah, so I guess we'll hopefully be seeing more information soon. Yeah, I don't want to ruin the surprise. No. Yeah. Oh, you know something, Sean? I actually do want to ruin the surprise, but I'm not going to. all right so let's let's move on um so this next topic is a bit is pretty sad uh so there was a community member called Ivan Hofer who passed away during a an ultra marathon he so he was responsible for doing uh the library called type safe internationalization or i18n which has been And I think it's pretty much been the go-to internationalization library for Svelte users for a while. So that's pretty sad. It's crazy how, and he was pretty young as well, so it's kind of crazy to me that these things happen. Especially when you're doing something that's ultimately a healthy thing. That's probably the biggest surprising thing for me. Yeah, TypeSafe i18n, we actually launched it literally the week after he died, unfortunately. but it's the reason we chose it is because so he was driving a thing within the maintainers actually that it would become it would start off as a third party thing and then eventually become the kind of de facto solution for SvelteKit for internalization so it's a real shame actually because I would have loved to see him spearhead that work and it become part of SvelteKit core I think someone is stepping up to take his place which is great that that can go on and continue because it's a great library. I don't know much about TypeScript, obviously, but it's very type-focused, and that's good because it means that you kind of get hinting around when you're trying to translate your site. It's tricky to wire in, but once it's wired, it works really well. I mean, we launched with it no issue at all, and it's in production now. So I highly recommend the library. Yeah. Yeah, and it's such a shame that I didn't actually get to talk to him. Yeah. Yeah I only talked to him briefly on Discord Yeah He submitted a Svelte Summit talk for the Svelte Summit that you can go check out And it about type save I I would miss that one. And there's also like a, I guess you could call it an obituary where people can translate messages using, so it's a site that Dominic, Dominic G, not the, well, damn it. they're both called Dominic G. Yeah, it's complex. Oh, OG Dominic. Actually, now that's even more confusing. It's too hard now. Yeah. But yeah, so... It's Dominic with a K and Dominic with a C. Dominic with a K is the one who did the arbitrary. Yes. Yes, yeah. So it's basically a repo where you can add a translation of a nice message that shows up on a website. So that will be in the show notes. So you can open a PR and add a language that's missing. It's not there yet. Yeah, I think that's it. Go check out his talks and type safe I-18. Yeah, definitely use the library. I think it's the most complete out there. Yep. All right. So showcases. There's been a couple of cool projects lately that I wanted to highlight. So this first one is called SvelteDroid, which is a – it's pretty cool. It's like a Super Metroid implementation for the web, kind of using sorts of different kind of technologies. and the UI or the HUD, heads-up display stuff, is made using Svelte. So that's cool. And I've reached out to... Sorry, I was going to say, I think the actual game engine is written in 3.js, I believe. And yeah, the HUD's in Svelte. I've never played the game, but it looks a bit to me like Half-Life or Doom or whatever. I don't know if people play it nowadays, these kids, but yeah, it's really cool. It's really, really cool. Yeah, it's a first-person kind of game. And I've reached out to, I think he's called Jason. No Tyler Tyler and asked him to come on the on the podcast So maybe we can maybe we can hear him talk about this himself I mean it quite a feat to build out in 3 as well I'm really impressed with it. It's one of those things where I genuinely have no idea how I would even start that kind of thing. It's kind of also me and I'm at AI right now. Sorry, Sean, it's true. I just don't know how I would even begin. Yeah. Next up, I wanted to highlight Joy of Code or Matia. He's also an ambassador. His library called Animotion, which is a really cool library that you can use to make presentations with animations and all this cool stuff. And you can also use it to record videos. So, well, you would use it and then record the actual slides, I guess. so it's pretty nice has anyone tried it? I have not but it certainly sounds interesting but they're like he's done a video on it as well and it looks pretty nice has anyone invented time yet? because I think time is the thing that prevents me from trying most of these things out I mean I would just love to like sit here and just try everything because the stuff people build is amazing and every time I do try something with some you know with some anger um it's like oh I can use this and all these ideas come and you apply it to this and apply it to that and I just think if I had like time to do 100% of these things I would I would be so much more productive and I wouldn't be which is you know the irony the whole thing but I would be more productive because I'd think like bang problem apply that apply that apply that and it's it's just um yeah it's a curse unfortunately yeah I I mean, if you get kids, I hear that's a time sink. No, not at all. They're fine. They're just barely impact my time at all. Yeah. Okay. I think that's it for, unless we have other topics that you guys want to talk about, we can move on to the most important sections of the show, Unpopular Opinions. I'm not on my desk. I haven't got mine. I guess we can let Anthony go first. Ah, what's an unpopular opinion? I mean I don really have any of these do I Unpopular opinions I haven really thought of one this time actually I mean I a sass in a WeWork and it a fostering place for unpopular opinions because honestly it the most work hostile environment I've ever been into I really don't like it and no one else seems to like this so why are we here because my company's based here because it's kind of de facto isn't it and I think what we're going to do is probably consider options because I don't think I don't think anyone wants to be here to be honest so I'll sit here quite happily here and say this is a bit crap um that's my unpopular opinion uh who's next i could go or sean do you want to i don't know i was going to ask for parenting unpopular opinion so surely you must have some oh parenting i mean i mean it's weird because i think that i don't really have unpopular opinion about parenting i think what i have is so there's there's all these rules online and you have a baby and you start reading all this kind of crazy stuff about how to look after them how to treat them what's best for babies and and one thing that always sticks in your mind is is this whole this whole SIDS this whole cot death thing right which is the most horrendous thing imaginable little babies dying in their cots and you're asleep and they just die or whatever it's just I mean it's just unthinkable and so you get so worried about that and one of the things they always tell you is that you must keep them at a certain temperature between 16 degrees and 20 degrees and and our baby was born in summer right our room our bedroom gets to 35 degrees in summer sometimes right it's really really hard to cool our house down so it's almost impossible to start with to try and solve this problem um but on top of that also my wife is very different to me in the way how she keeps hot so my wife is never ever warm enough she will sleep in summer under a 13-time blanket with with extra fleecy blankets pajamas you name it i will be like trying to peel my skin off to be even more naked than i already am like i literally i i will always overheat and she will always freeze and so we're like well what which one is the baby and it seems like it's a bit more towards verity because we literally took her in in 24 degrees in our room on on a regular basis and she gets cold and only when she's got a fleeting blanket on top of her merino wool bed bag which is on top of a merino wool like a like a sleep suit is she warm enough to sleep through and i swear i swear like it's that's hot that's really hot and if you were if you were to read any of this stuff online you'd be like oh we're just going to kill her like but it's it's not like that every baby is so different to the tune of maybe 20 degrees uh in body temperature like it's crazy absolutely

 crazy so yeah my my opinions are don't don't believe anything read online don't assume that that all this this common this very very common advice is correct for your child um you really have to just live and learn i guess when my kids were babies it was always just don't let them roll onto their stomach like yeah keep them on their backs and yeah i've never heard the heat thing and so oh the heat was terrifying but the rolling over one so what what the midwife told us is um is that in the 80s when I was born, the advice was front sleeping. So they literally would have to put you face down on your cot to sleep. And no one made the link here between, they had to be like some stupid figure, a large percentage of cot death. And someone went, do you think it's because they're on their face and they suffocate in a blanket? Oh, maybe. And so the next advice was to put them, apparently in the 90s or something, side sleeping. So you sleep on the side, which is impossible to sleep a baby on its side, by the way. You can't do it. They just decide what's going on. They roll onto their backs. I mean, and babies, when they're born, can't actually roll all the way over, which is like why sleeping on their bellies is really bad. And sleeping on their backs, they can't turn over themselves. So sleeping on their backs is what they said. Yeah, so in the UK at some point, the National Health Service said, sleep on the back is the way to do it. And after that happened, the SIDS rates dropped like hundreds and hundreds of times. Like, oh, okay, that makes sense. You know, how did it take us so long to learn this? Yeah. And how did we go through all the stages of different ways to sleep before we figured out maybe one where the mouth is in the air is the best one? And so you call it HOTNESS, and you said SIDS, but it stands for Sudden Infant Death Syndrome. Yes, that's it, yes. Someone that doesn't know what we're talking about. Yeah, yeah. I mean, sudden infant death syndrome is a weird phrase because it's basically suffocation. I mean, there's lots of different other ones as well, like overheating and stuff. But suffocation was and probably still is a main cause of it. Blankets in the cot, they can suffocate toys in the cot. So you can have a bed bag because it sticks to them, but you can't have anything else near the baby in the cot because they might get it in their mouth and then. Sounds super scary to have a baby. It's a learning experience. and you could definitely scare yourself and you could also get scared But you know it one of those things where the trade offs are worth it i still go in every single night and make sure my children are breathing it is like yeah just i think forever ingrained in me now just to like go in and check on them yeah i mean it makes sense and since the age of 12 months she loves sleeping on her front she won't sleep any other way so you know you have to deal with it you just make sure there's no obstructions Oh, I think after like three months, you're pretty safe. Really? It's 18 months, they say, in the UK. But again, it's that online thing. It's what you read online. Apparently, SIDS is most prolific up to 18 months. And after that, there's really no cases at all. Source the internet. Well, it's NHS, so it's a little bit more legitimate, but yeah. Fair enough. So you mentioned your wife and you have super different sleeping temperatures. Have you heard about this eight sleep thing? Yes, and I want one, but it's two and a half grand and then a subscription. What? I'm not paying that. So Sean and Brittany, if you haven't heard of this, it's like a water-cooled mattress cover with two zones that you can change individually so you can sleep in the perfect temperature. And Alan Huberman recommends it. But like... Yeah, yeah. Maybe Alan Huberman can afford it. Like two and a half grand in a subscription? That sounds ridiculous. Yeah. I think for me, it's the subscription that really stays like, why? You need a subscription to buy. Yeah. Exactly. Because they can make money out of it, right? And they want you to see them. And imagine the people buying these. People buying these have tons of money, right? So another 20 bucks a month for a subscription is nothing. All I'll say is that every good idea can be cloned. So I look forward to the clones. Yep. All right. I can go next. So my unpopular opinion is that you don't need a lot of equipment to do content. So they've been renovating my bathroom now for a while. and they're going to for nine weeks. And I record at home. I create content at home. I have my camera and all of this stuff. But I decided that I just going to sell all of that stuff and buy like a what it called like a lav mic instead Yeah I love them I got those And then yeah And then I just going to use an iPhone to record the the actual like face of myself. So you don't need more. I did a talk with, um, Zach Leatherman, Eleventy creator. And we talked about Jamstack the other day on cloud Canon, his new company. Um, their youtube channel and one of the people that were with us was using their iphone and i swear it had better quality than my dslr and i today we had so many audio troubles getting in here and i switched off my yeti mic and i'm using the macbook and the mac camera and antony's using The MacBook. I mean, we're all like just – technology has come so far. I'm slimming it. I don't even have a light. Look at that. Yeah, but I mean it's not – the FaceTime camera is not the greatest, but the iPhone and like any smartphone – I used to use my smartphone as my camera. It's fine. It's good is what I was saying. Sorry. All right. That's not popular, I don't think. I don't know. I feel like every time you go online, it's like always, oh, you need this camera, you need this, this, this, and this. If you listen to all the tech YouTubers and... There was this eraser camera. I think we talked about it a while back. That seemed really good. Scott's got one. Scott Spence has a posh webcam. Yeah, he seems to like it. It looks good. Yeah, it looks good. We should have Scott back on. I hear he has a new gig. Yes. He has got a new gig, yeah. And his full-time gig is running Svelte London for me because I tell you what, I can't have time to do it. Yeah, I went to Svelte London and you weren't there. So I may have attended more Svelte London than you. You have recently, for sure. At least this year. Yes. I guess I can quickly go on to mine, unless, Brittany, you have something that you want to mention. I'm still thinking, so go for it. Okay, well, I can share one. I can donate one to you if you want to talk about it as a fellow ex-Netlify employee. Jamstack is dead Well I just had this conversation I can say Jamstack is dead we just talked about it Jamstack is alive okay so maybe I'm popular opinion as Jamstack is alive yeah so that was what the conversation was about is Jamstack dead is it worth saving like does it need to have this hard line of like what is the philosophy behind Jamstack? Do we want the, and basically like Jamstack was about the community behind it. And I think it can still be like what VEAT has become to the community and it can have an architecture, but that doesn't mean it has to be, you have to have this architecture or you're shamed from being in this community. And that's becoming our channel. And then it also started evolving and adapting because Netlify was playing catch up to Next.js. And they started adding too much into it and evolving it that people didn't know what it was. And then now they're, they killed off the Discord because there was nobody coming to the community because they felt shamed or they didn't know what Jamstack was anymore. And it lost what it was. I don't think that means it's dead. I think Jamstack, the philosophy, the architecture still does exist. You can still create performant sites that are static by default that have like, you can use serverless functions. You can make them progressively enhanced, but performant by default. And I think that falls into that Jamstack philosophy. And you can have that community around it. And that can live on without needing all of the other Netlify garbage attached to it. But it's forever going to be attached to Netlify. What do you mean garbage? What? These ex-Netlify people here have been a bit of a... I said this in the thing. I was like, because Phil did a good job of explaining, like, why they switched the meaning of Jamstack and why they brought in all of this other stuff. Like, it didn't have to mean just static content. As the web was evolving, it had to evolve. Okay. And I was like, but in the same sense, Netlify is a business.

 they also had to think that Next.js was just taking off and leaving them in the dust. That had to also play into it that they had to include Next.js in the Jamstack or that was going to exclude the biggest framework from the Jamstack. And so I think that played into that evolving a little bit. And that's what I meant by garbage. Not that Netlify is garbage, just that I think the business attaches too much to the Jamstack. And you can never separate the two. Yeah. Yeah. They're tight at the hip. Yeah. Cool. Well, that was an unpopular discussion or opinion, whatever that calls it. But it's worth having because it happened in the time that we were off, and it is a major discussion topic for web development. I have a slightly different one, which is that I don't think it's unpopular right now, but I think it was unpopular as of a month ago, which is that Bun has beat Deno in terms of the new JavaScript runtime race. And it's, to me, very interesting. And I think I'll be honest, something that I was wrong about. I had looked at Deno as the attempt that had far more backing because it was run by Ryan Dahl and had the ESM future of JavaScript in mind, whereas something with backward compatibility with Node and run by someone with relatively less experience in open source would struggle. and as you guys have all seen in the past month, I think that opinion has completely reversed and now people are much more likely to try Bun purely because of the faster installation times and nothing else. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And then they'll learn about the kind of require and import the same file, all that kind of fun stuff and it's like Dino, Dino, Dino, whatever it's called, I guess it gave you TypeScript on Node but I didn't hear that much outside of that. That's like one thing and it didn't interest me anyway. Whereas Bun has just solved loads of problems which is well we think it has That the marketing And I think the marketing is definitely a part of it but also I guess the prioritization of what is important in terms of people pain points Dino also shipped NPM support. So you can import NPM modules in Dino because guess what? Ryan wrote the node resolution algorithm, so he knows how to support NPM packages. It just wasn't part of the original design goal. and he's basically had to compromise at every stage because Bun went for full node compatibility and now we are where we are. And it's very interesting because it turns out that speed is just a very effective marketing tactic and Dino, for whatever reason, never communicated that as a priority. Well, I guess what I mean, not necessarily the node compatibility but the fact it can do import and require in the same file, cjs and ej esm that was like a major pain pain point that you see again and again and again on twitter and to go and attack that and address that problem that for me is a real like that's got people talking about it everyone likes speed right that's cool but that thing there was like that's solidified everyone's mind i must try this thing it solves my massive pain point that i will encounter at some point and and that's pretty that's what's drawing me to it but i did see something about that support may be slower for some things to bun is that like does any i haven't tried bun yet and i don't know is that going to be true like is it going to be slower to support future stuff i i don't think so like it depends on what webkit supports right or what's it called javascript core is the javascript engine of webkit uh so since so node is based on v8 right So that's Chrome. But Bun is based on the Safari version. And so it depends on what the Safari people put in JavaScript core, I guess. But they're supposed to be compatible with each other, right? But as we all know, there are issues with browsers on the web not doing the same thing. I think you'll always find the incompatibility with something that basically tries to implement something else exactly. If Bind can do this ESM support why can we not get this in Node Because I understand and I could be wrong but I understand it because the way it done is fundamentally different The way import works is async It a completely different paradigm And I think that unless you build it from the ground up with the view to support both, it's very, very hard to retrofit because you've gone down a certain path and a lot of decisions hinge off that initial decision. I did see that it could be done in Node, but it would be very, very difficult to do that in Node. Yeah. Yeah, I've tried using Bun for a SvelteKit project, and it's really nice. I'm using specifically the SQLite support, which is built into Bun. So you don't have to import a library for that. But I hear there are some missing features that are apparently very important to people, so you can't really use it yet. I'm not sure if this is actually a real 1.0 or if it should have been maybe a 0.9 or... Well, it's 101 now. Yeah, right. But you get what I mean, right? It's very close, but it's not quite there yet. I think it's test in public. Everyone's obsessed with 1.0 and there's a whole movement around don't ever release version 1, right? It's a question that's asked a lot. Is SvelteKit ready? before 1.0, when's 1.0? Why do you want 1.0? Because then it's ready for production. Well, it's not. It's just a number. It doesn't mean anything, right? It may mean stability in the API, but that depends on who's doing it. Theoretically, less breaking changes until you have another major version. Yeah, but it's still up to the maintainers who do it to decide to respect Semper in that way. There's nothing saying 1 is good and 0 is not good. But I think that, yeah, I would do what he's done and rush it out a bit earlier than it's ready ready because you want to get feedback and test that way. And that's how you find what's important to people. But I think I wouldn't put it in production anyway. Definitely not yet, but I think for a while. I wouldn't use it in dev environments only because that's definitely, you're putting in production something different to you've got in dev environment. That's almost bad. So I think, you know, it's good that it's out there and we can use it for small stuff and experiment, but it's just not ready yet. It's just not ready. in real world terms. The other thing is I did try the other day with my API and Mongo does not like it at all or vice versa. Like there was loads of issues there. And I think one thing that someone else has mentioned is that the support for whatever the stuff that is needed by Sharp which is a lot of native bindings does not work and will not work for a while because it quite hard to implement I think Jared might even have said that himself. But, yeah, so that will – I try to avoid native library if I can, but that will be a blocker for a lot of people as well that use native stuff. Brittany, do you have a – Oh, I feel like mine was the Jamstack stuff. Yeah, I guess yours was the Jamstack one. All right, cool, cool. Cool. then it's the the final section of of the show the picks sean you have one i like your pick as well by the way let's okay so i'll start off with one um i think this past week was the single best week of tv in maybe the past two years that i've seen so we had both foundation season two episode nine and ahsoka episode four both of which are very good and i think after a little bit of a slump um as the marvel tv shows declined in quality everyone hates on secret invasion and that was not very good but i think apple is picking it back up and star wars is picking it back up so highly recommend catching up on foundation go through season one and two and it's really good Episode 9, it might feel slow, but it's all building up towards... I think I've been calling this sort of the Game of Thrones strategy. Game of Thrones, famously, the Episode 9s of every season are the big budget episodes where a lot happens and it's very high budget, a lot of action. And that seems to be what's happening for Foundation. And yeah, I highly recommend it. I feel like if I talk more about it, it would be a spoiler for it. It's basically an adaptation of the Isaac Asimov novels, but with an edition of something that they call the Kleonic Dynasty, which is a concept introduced just for the TV show. And apparently the only thing that people like about it. So everything adapted from the books, the sort of Gale and Savo Hardin storyline was very boring to most viewers. but the stuff that was invented just for the tv show is very compelling and drives a lot of viewers and i think there was some resolution there this season but i like it anyway and it's just very good escapist science fiction so that's my recommendation very very nice like production

 Well, all of the graphics and everything is really, really nice. I thought a couple of the earlier episodes were sluggish, but then towards the end of the season was really good. So fight through those episodes is what I'm saying. It's funny you mentioned the part that they added to the show was the part that people liked. I feel like usually it's the other way around with adaptations. interpretations like the witcher is people are not really liking the the direction there etc but yeah i mean so much so that henry cavill left the witcher right yeah and unfortunately also got dumped for superman yeah i wonder what he's going to be doing now oh i think he's going to be working on warhammer yeah warhammer tv show or something or a movie yeah so that the explanation for a foundation is that uh the book itself is extremely hard to adapt into a tv show because it spans thousands of years in timeline and therefore the characters change a lot so in order to make the tv show make sense they had to invent characters that would be effectively immortal and that what they did without giving it too much away now that that that a good summary um have you guys seen the Wheel of Time series Yeah Have you read the books? No. I haven't started them. Yeah, because this is a show that I was very excited about, but I was very disappointed because I've read the books and it's nothing like the books. They've changed everything. It's only like the characters in name basically and then everything is just happening randomly that happens in the books but it's it's yeah don't read the books if you like the show this is going to ruin the show oh they're like 14 books another good tv recommendation that we watched was wool is the name of the book but the name of the tv show is silo on apple tv yes um it was so good and i'm reading the book now and it is very close to the book um there are some things that they changed just to like move the story along a little faster but um i'm really enjoying the book now good yeah i i've i've watched that as well definitely something you should watch if you like foundation sean all right picks i don have one so you guys go ahead that was my pick i I guess I have one Yeah I have one So I have a condition So what it is, it's not. I mean, it is and it isn't. So there's a thing called restless leg syndrome or RLS, and some people have it, and no one's ever been able to explain why it happens, what it is, how to solve it, how to cure it. You look online, it's like, oh, you can't cure it. It's just a thing. and it's when you get really tired uh exhausted your legs just want to move you can't not move your legs um people people tap their feet because of it sometimes you see them tap their feet probably because they've got rls it's like it's like a pain that starts in your muscles and if i try and hold my leg still when i've got it like they will it will build and build and build so i have to just like squirm and like you're trying to lie in bed trying to sleep and your legs are squirming and no one's ever like been able to say what this is and doctors don't know and I was just randomly mentioning to my to my sister-in-law and she said oh yeah it's a magnesium deficiency I mean what what and um and so I'm like what do you mean she's like oh hang on a minute comes back with this um like a jar of tablets uh magnesium three and eight that she got from Amazon I'm like what no it's not I mean you're making this up she's like yeah it just solves it I like all right give me them so she gave me these two tablets um just magnesium um and half an hour and it was gone and i was just like what my entire life i didn know this was a thing and now it's just solved it and and so i took these tablets when i get it and it solves it half an hour it's gone finished and it's a magnesium deficiency and and the best bit is that you can just take these because if you have this you generally have a magnesium deficiency you take these to sleep and they're like the best sleeping tablets ever so i can wake up feeling like a train's hit me in the morning just by taking these completely natural um you know uh just like it takes vitamins you know and honestly like the sleep i get from having those is amazing it's so solid um and sleep is good actually so yeah magnesium three and eight i think that's how you pronounce it i don't know but it's good it's good stuff so next up we were doing a sponsor spot for athletic greens no i'm kidding oh yeah we're actually doing it i was gonna say yeah no no no no no no that would be funny so so i think that's it thanks everyone for watching and listening to us and uh yeah we'll see you next week bye bye hey it's cover if you like the show please drop a review on your favorite podcast player it would help out a lot thanks