 Hello everyone, welcome to another episode of Svelte Radio. Long time no see, Brittany Anthony, hello. Hello. What was the last episode? Like last year? I think you did a couple, right? Like a couple conferences. But the three of us, I think it's been almost a year, probably. But we've got the gang back together now. Yeah, finally. Things have happened in Svelte World, in our world. I don't think anything's really happened. I think it just paused with us. Yeah, probably. We were the people just bringing everything forward in the Svelte world, right? Without us. Exactly. Driven by radio. Yeah. But we were at a conference. We met at a conference. Again. That was fun. It was called Svelte Summit, for those that are in to know. That's the place to be. And Spain was amazing. Incredible. It was. Yeah. Very grungy venue. It was great. It was rustic. It was great, Vinny. I really liked Vinny. It was rustic. I thought it was really pretty. I kind of wanted it as a house. Very pretty. Just scared me a bit when their ceiling was leaking. Just barely missed the audio and video gear. Yeah. You know. It was fine. And the toilet paper ran out. Yeah, there were like issues with the staff and management, but we made it and we got through it. Yeah, it was great. And it was good. I would say it was more fun than Stockholm, in a sense. Like, Stockholm was fun because it was the first time we got to meet everyone, kind of. That's true. For me, at least. But then this time was just like meeting everyone again, which was a lot of fun. But it was very difficult. Like, Stockholm, we had this reserved place that just took us all in and then we just chatted afterwards. whereas we ran around the whole of Spain. It felt like the whole of Spain afterwards. I did run around the whole of Spain afterwards No you really did I really did But we were just trying to find one bar that would get us in and basically try and sneak some people in and then sort of filter people in bit by bit so they didn't know it was a massive crowd because they didn't want a massive crowd. So just get four people in and then get them ordering drinks and then, oh, there's four more people here. Have some drinks. And then eventually 40-something people turn up, maybe 60, I can't remember how they were. And then they're like, oh, we have been played. We have been played. surely they like it when people show up to their venue so they can sell their products, right? Not American tourists when they're going through like a protest of tourism. A rebel of self-people. Yeah, we are very rowdy. I guess you're not American. I said that, sorry. There were quite a few, well, I guess there were some Americans that were there. It's nice not having people talk about British tourists for once, to be honest. No, we are definitely the worst, but it's nice that it wasn't the default. That's quite good. Every time I go to Hungary to visit friends, I always hear about people complaining about British stag doos. Yep. My stag doos is Hungary, oddly enough. My stag doos was indeed in Hungary. Really? It was in Hungary because what stag do? It's like a bachelor party. When you get married, it's like a stag party. Oh, it's like a stag party. It's just another book. Okay. Yeah. It's like a stag party. It is a stag party. It's not like a stag party. It really is. I just like stag do sounded very... Oh, I see. I didn't know what you were talking about. Do you know what a do is? No. I don't. I've just heard stag do. Maybe that's a Britishism. So a do is party. So like, are we going to your birthday? Day Do means going to a birthday party. It's a birthday party. It's not like a party. I don't know why. It's a to-do. I don't know. I have no idea why it's called a do, but it's called a do. We always call them do's. It sounds like a doo-doo. Are you going to a what's-a-faces do? Yeah, I am. But yeah, it was great. It was great. I am looking forward to next year. Svelte Do? We thought it was Svelte Do. Do we have a place yet? No I still waiting for like the tax registration stuff It a bit on me to be fair Like I not really had the mental capacity to do stuff lately I was going to say like you not busy at all No. No. Can I recommend Hungary? I mean, I would love that. It is. It is nice. I've never been to Hungary. I love Hungary. The joy of Hungary is it has a lot of spas and baths and, you know, places you can go and have, like, sit in a big heated pool and stuff. It's great. Are they clothed? Not all of them. There's also like a... I saw an advertisement for something called a Sparty. That's a party at a spa. Spoo. Spadoo. Spadoo. Spadoo. This is going to go all episodes. Welcome back, guys. You're welcome. Yeah, we're just catching up. We haven't really chatted a lot lately, the three of us. So it's fun. I'm hoping the audience also enjoys it a bit. But let's maybe talk a bit about the Svelte Radio plans going forward. I would want this to happen once a week if we can do it. Maybe not. Maybe we will. Maybe we won't. But hopefully more frequent than the last year or so. This is the first Candice told us of this, by the way. Yes. We are finding out a lot. I mean, to be fair, I did ask you, like, what time every week would kind of work for you. You dropped it in there. You dropped it in. And then we missed, like, two weeks of that because life is chaos. Yeah. Yeah, for those that don't know, I have a newborn. He's just over five weeks now. Wow. And it's a lot of work, mostly mentally for me. I mean, it's worse physically for my girlfriend probably because she has to do all the feeding and the stuff. Yeah. So basically, I guess she's taking care of the baby. I'm taking care of her. Yeah, that makes sense. That is the role. Right. For now, at least. Yeah. So, yeah, I've been, I haven't, honestly, I haven't touched any code for like a month. I just been so tired As you shouldn right Like you take paternity leave Right Yeah yeah that is true But you know I kind of like coding you know Yeah. We all like coding, but, you know, there's priorities. The thing is, I mean, five weeks is a really hard bit. Like, the first couple of months are just ridiculous. And I'm glad I don't have to do that. You know, I think another thing is it's our first, right? So I assume as you have more of them, you're kind of just like, eh, it'll work out. I mean, you know what's going to happen. That doesn't make it better the second time. Well, in terms of like maybe you don't worry about everything all the time. Like for me, it was a struggle. Okay. All right. I mean, you do, you do, but you prioritize your worrying. You prioritize your worrying. That's what happens. You worry about a smaller breadth of things, but you worry in more depth about those things. Anthony, do you want to explain for the audience why you have tape on your head? Well, no one can see the tape on my head, but I had a piece of hair sticking out. We definitely can. Well, we can, but the audience won't, because we're not recording the video. Oh, I thought we were recording video, so. No, no. I just let the cat out of the bag. There was a piece of hair sticking out, It's gone in. I see it worked. Editors can cut that out, I guess. It did work. Taking the screenshot did work. Taking the screenshot is gone. The hair is back to normal. I changed hairdresser as well. That's the reason for the hair sticking out. You have a regular hairdresser? I used to. I used to. I actually do as well. Anyway. Should we talk about something? Oh, that's hurting. So, for those that can't see, Brittany just got a piercing in the ear, I think? Yeah, I got two ear piercings yesterday to match my 12-year-old daughter so we could clean them and hers will not get infected this time. I also have the same piercings on the other side, so it's called a conch and a helix piercing. And then I had head bones on them and that hurt. Yeah, so now you're just wearing one headphone. Well, half of a headphone. Half of a headphone. Pair of headphones? Oh, it's not a half. Right?

 Anyway, so in terms of Svelte, what have you guys been up to? Are you working with Svelte? Are you, are you, because I don't know. I am. I've actually been getting to use Svelte 5 for the first, well, not for the first time, but regularly for the first time. And it's been great. Brand new coat face. Sounds like fun. It's golden. It's interesting that, yeah, you're just using Splat5, and in reality, I guess I too am just using Splat5 now. Because, you know, in the real world, you can't move as fast as the core team can or the people with hobby projects or side projects or whatever else they've got. So you end up... Excuses. Just excuses. I know. Aren't you the CTO of your company? Yeah. We have to make money. Priority. Yeah, I was going to say, you have users, and you have to keep things flowing and working. And what better way of using a fast, modern framework that can make the user experience better? You know, we have production apps, so half of our biggest app at Live is still using Sapa. Oh, that's terrible. It's still fast. It's still fast. It works, you know. But the thing is, yeah, we also just started using Sapa. Really, because we hired Peru, which you may have to say. And so I get him to do Svelte now rather than me, actually. But the thing is, one of his main tasks, really, for us is to move all the stuff from Sapper into SvelteKit. And then it was to upgrade from SvelteKit and Svelte4 to the latest SvelteKit and Svelte5. And it wasn't the world's smoothest journey, I'll be honest. But we're now on Svelte5, we're in the latest SvelteKit, but we still have a bunch of stuff in Sapper, which we are migrating across. but it's exciting yeah because I mean I have to admit I was a person who I didn't particularly like the look of runes I remember the first meeting where we started talking about what Svelte 5 would be and I was pretty against the whole idea and I certainly made you know made everyone aware on the call that I wasn't against it and there was this kind of movement sort of yeah you know it doesn't make sense to change everything and then a little bit swayed back the other way and Rich is like, what if this happened, what if this happened? And him and Dom are kind of discussing what this could look like and it starts to look a little bit more a little bit less salty let say a little bit more like a set of imports and a set of functions that you call to make state rather than having state kind of implicit in the language. And I didn't like that, so I wasn't excited about moving to it, but now I've started using it, and I can see, and you have to really use it to see the value in what's been done. it's like yeah actually this is this is actually it's objectively better but um i can see how it's more intimidating for a new a newcomer still so my original fear wasn't unfounded but certainly i can now see advantages i agree 100 i think you have to use it to see the benefits of it but now that i'm using it too it's like you can see just how much easier some things are and how much better things work so yeah i agree with that and i was very against it yeah same um i've been working with it for probably like six or seven months now oh wow okay at like the the place i was at before um and i i like it they're just like some stuff that is a bit foot gunny like if you're if you're comparing objects in arrays since it's like a proxy object and then you're comparing it with something else you have to kind of what do you call it um work around that a bit like as because before you could just like compare the objects because they have the same reference but now they're different references so it's not really the same object you're comparing if you if you're like doing a duplication of something yeah and you want to compare like a uh maybe like a what would you call it like a like the default object and then if you make a change and then you want to see which objects in an array has changed, something like that. So that's a bit irritating, but it's just the nature of proxies. Yeah, well, I think one of the things about, you know, it's like Java kind of nailed it a long time ago, and it's a shame that JavaScript and ES6 didn't follow that pattern if they even could. But the whole two-string function and the overriding of that function to build your own equality model is great, and I love that. in Java. I think it's really good. It would be amazing if there was something similar in JavaScript. I not familiar with that What is that Well if you compare two objects in Java what it does is it uses it might not be two string I might have got mixed up here because I learned about it when I was using Groovy but essentially it has a method. If you type equals, equals, equals, or the equivalent equals, equals, or dot equals on it, what it will do is it first of all calls that method, which then generates any makeup of that object that you want for comparison. So if it's an object full of all sorts of crazy stuff, but actually you want to say something's different if it contains one property which is a number that's different or a Boolean true or false you can make your equals or two string or whatever method it's called, just compare just return those two so that one property so that you can say they're not equal or they are equal based on purely what that method returns so you're really comparing the output of that method and I think that'll be it was great in Groovy, it was great in Java, I think it would be great in JavaScript or ES6. It would fit nicely. ESM. What are we even calling it nowadays? What's it called? ECMAScript? Yeah, ECMAScript. I don't know. You know, JavaScript is owned by Oracle, right? Yeah, yeah. So we have to be careful here. It became the richest man in the world last week, right? Yeah, right. With the idea. They also own Java. and they owned the JVM and made it proprietary but luckily people forked it and made an OpenJDK before that so Oracle are slightly famous for doing this They're also slightly famous for being a bit anti I don't know what you would even call it but they don't have the best reputation probably anti not suing people for no obvious reason Do you guys want to talk about what's new in Svelte? All this remote function stuff. To be fair, I don't really know what's new in Svelte. Right. And isn't there a show called What's New in Svelte that we do every week? There is, actually. Yes. You can watch that on YouTube. Yeah. No, but there's remote functions and they just came to SvelteKit as well, I think, with SSR support. So now we can actually ditch the load function. Oh, okay, you can tell me about those, because I don know about this Yeah yeah So oh you haven seen the remote function stuff No I haven used them I obviously aware of them but I haven used them Yeah I haven had that much time to use them yet either but I just watched the video that Simon did. I don't know if you've seen it. Oh, I heard about that. He goes through some examples and shows you what you can do. And it looks really nice. It looks really, really nice. especially if you're working in a situation where you're like in your load function where you're pulling in multiple things and then you might just want to refresh one of them instead of like running the whole load function you would just like fetch the specific data if that makes sense it's a lot more granular and it's also like more tied to your component rather than your page so you can kind of reuse logic on different pages by just reusing the component instead of the load function. Yeah, I would highly recommend watching the video. It's live on our YouTube channel, Spelt Society. If you haven't seen it, been to the channel, you should go there and check it out, especially the video. It's very good. But yeah, that's about the amount of knowledge I have about remote functions at the time. I know there are different ones. It's like the query one where you fetch data. There's a command one where you tell the server to do something. And then there's the form one as well, I think. And also a pre-render one, if I remember correctly. So you can fetch data and just pre-render it at build. Or fetch the data at build. push it into town. That sounds really interesting. That's actually what I was going to say earlier is that we have a fairly new code base that we started this year. And we started, I feel like, back in April. And I had to upgrade to get access to attachments. I wanted to use attachments. And then I'm like, oh, we are not on the version that I can use that. And so it moves so fast. I can't keep up. I actually have to take a break soon just to do upgrades. We did a V upgrade last week, and I don't think that broke anything, but we'll see. I definitely upgraded to V test from whatever else we're using in one of the monorapos. That definitely broke.

 That was a mistake. I actually started doing all of my testing in Storybook. I know Hepe has done videos and worked with What's New in Spell. I think he did one of those too. But Storybook has come a long way. And the testing in it uses VTest under the hood. So I just write the story and everything just right together. And then you also have that visual piece. So you can see your test run, what step it's on. Everything's just right there in your story. It's really cool. Nice. Yeah. Yeah, Storybook is, like, I think we talked about this at Sotsummit, but, like, I remember when Storybook just came out, and it's just, like, honestly, and I... They know this. I think they know this, but the developer experience, complete trash, right? Especially for Spel. You just run into issues everywhere. Yeah, exactly. but even for like React in the beginning it was not that it was very heavy as well and I think that it was at the point where Rick, So, and Co I think started writing their own Svensch yeah, there were like lots of different ones for a while Scott Kaminsky had one and there was a Veet based one yeah, a Veet book or something and there were a few yeah but now it's like it's all forgiven because now it's great yeah now it's great no but seriously they they've made like really good progress and and it is really nice to use yeah you just have to make sure that your team actually keeps using it so it doesn't get out of sync it's just me and one other developer and i do all this the design system stuff so like storybook and all that stuff is done by me so i'm the only one just make sure i keep my documentation updated so in case they lay me off like every other company i've worked for sad but true well no grainger didn't lay me off but yeah it is it feels like it's just crazy right now the work place environment with AI taking everything over. I read about on Hacker News, there was a thread about there was a study about how much work so they defined this as work slop It was work generated by AI that looks like it is good work but is actually bad And apparently it takes up so much time from other people having to go through all this. For example, if one person generates work slop, then some other receiving person would have to check that work and make sure that it's good. And apparently that takes a lot of time. It takes more time than you want to write it the first time yourself. Exactly, yeah. Especially with the back and forth, right? If you have the AI write some stuff and then someone has to review it, maybe they're reviewing it with AI. Yeah, they've got like Copilot suggested first thing on GitHub now. Like every time you put a PR in. yeah this is exactly how you end up with no product yeah it's like it's very good like I've been working on the Svelte Society website it's probably going live soon I'm not going to promise anything like it at Svelte Summit but Kareem just finished fixing a bug so now it's like we're actually ready to start importing stuff so it should happen and I'm actually also hiring someone to moderate so if someone listening to this is interested the pay won't be that good but you'll have like a lot of fun. You get the pay of the community loving you and thanking you. Exactly. We pay you in what's it called when people want to pay designers in like eyeballs or something. Oh in views. In views. There will be they're the like actual pay but it just won't be like a developer pay right because it's not a developer job it's it's mostly admin work yeah but yeah uh what was i saying oh right yeah with the ai stuff um so i used a lot of cloud code for for the new website and like it's it's very good at doing like the very, very boilerplate stuff that I don't want to do myself that just repeat, repeats across multiple pages and stuff like that I used it to generate like a pretty nice admin graphical user interface So I don have to use Pocketbase or Firebase or something like that And it works great. But that's hidden away from the users, right? It's only the admins and the editors and the moderators that would be using this GUI. So for that, it's fine. And it's fine if there are a couple of bugs in there because who cares? wow yeah i've only tried a couple i've i tried chat gpt and it was absolutely awful at anything and claude is the first one that i found that will consistently write spelt code it occasionally will do like a dollar sign colon thing or something and i'll just tell it and it will fix it but what i found with claude is that because it has that claude.markdown file it can like you can put things in there about your work how you work whatever your system is that you use and it will read through that at the beginning of your conversation and it will remember essentially and then I've started with like my JIRA tickets I've made a folder and it makes its own context of markdown files for each ticket so then I can be like oh if I need to pick back workup i'm like go refresh your context on this ticket and it will and then that's helpful for it to just keep like where we're at and then it can see your entire file system based on like what you give it access to and because of that i think it does a better job than the other ones yeah also i have sorry i have the mac subscription and i um so i think it's like a hundred dollars a month, but I think it's worth it for the time that it saved me. But then I did a workout schedule this week, and it added calendar events to my event, put on the event the workout that I needed to do for every day, and, like, factored in the time, factored in, like, massage chair at the end. It's been working really well. I like it a lot. Yeah. I remember when AI got big a couple of years ago, I always wanted it to do stuff like that for me, like figure my day out, schedule things when I have time, et cetera. But yeah, so I just wanted to mention, we were talking about how different LLMs were good at writing Svelte You mentioned ChatGPT being pretty bad There a project an ongoing project internally I not sure if it public or not so maybe I shouldn talk about this but there's a Svelte MCP being worked on that gives the LLM feedback on what it writes and just makes it eventually write correct Svelte 5 code. So that's exciting. And then there's also Sveltebench that Stanislav Kromov is made that just like tests a bunch of different LLMs and compares them to how Svelte 5 should be written, right? So you get like a percentage score of which LLM is writing the best one. And at the moment, it's Claude Opus 4 and Claude Sonnet 4 that are topping the charts, which kind of makes sense. Yeah, not surprising, is it? But then surprising is, like, after that, there are, like, two open source Chinese models that are up there. And then there's Grot 4 as well. And no thank you to that one as well. Yeah. At least the Chinese ones you can run yourself. Yeah. You don't have to run it through these servers. I don't want to have my own server. I'm good. Yeah. Totally makes sense. But yeah, I just wanted to mention that. But yeah, AI has been great. I'm lazy. I like lazy things. Yeah. Well, the way we use AI is we have a thing called Tembo, which is a startup that basically reads linear tickets. Tembo.io. Tembo.io. You can connect it to various different ticket systems and backlogs. and you can go to GitHub or whatever else you use, and then basically it can pick up tickets, do the work, and then open PRs, which is, that's kind of all the workflow I really want from it. I'm not going to pretend it's great. It's not always great. It can do simple things. It can automate simple tasks, which is handy. It saves a day of getting, you know, losing context of what they're working on and doing some, like, little patch thing or whatever. It sometimes goes crazy. I think it uses Claude Under the Hood. For some reason, it sometimes goes crazy. does all sorts of mad stuff like regressing dependencies to older versions but it's in a PR so you can review it and say what are you doing what's going on here installing is odd and is even things like that

 the presence of libraries that don't exist within the same monorepro and deciding it should create them all with like actual code and package files you have to say that this is the wrong approach Anthony yeah exactly I mean I must be right but yeah so it's useful in a sort of confined space should we say alright cool what do you guys think? Should we end it there? It's like a first episode teaser for everyone and then I was thinking I would invite Simon for the next one. He mentioned that he would be interested in coming on and talking about remote functions so we can explore that in detail maybe. We can all learn. Yeah. Oh, of course. We can't forget our two last sections, right? Oh, yes. what did we call them? Hot takes? It was, oh yeah, I don't know about that one it was picks and the other one was yeah, hot takes no, it wasn't hot takes, it was controversial opinions unpopular opinions wow, it's been a while yeah, I almost wrote hot unpopular opinions, that's not the one I was going to write hot potatoes hot potatoes that's another one unpopular opinions Okay. Opinions. All right. I'll go first. You don't have to have one. I'm going to lean in on the work slop thing. And I'll be all of the world, I would say. Sean would probably disagree. He's not here to defend himself. I'm not going to say anything. Say what he would say. But, yeah. It's good for some stuff. But I also think like the work slop thing, that is probably a very real thing. And it wastes probably a lot of time. So once we figure that out, maybe it's going to be better. But it all depends on the prompts, right? The people that are asking the AI to do stuff. You need to improve on that part as well. I agree. And I don know if that a controversial opinion unless you like the CEO of a company who just trying to save money with workers but yeah I mean I don know I don have a controversial opinion go ahead Anthony I know you always have I often have I often have one I didn't really think of one for this one but um I mean yeah I think Kev's taken the best one there because that is very pertinent right now. That's where you go first. Wheelhouse, yeah. Controversial opinion. I think, right, the controversial opinion I have is related really to politics instead. Oh no. I know. It's controversial in a good way, right? The fact is that when you have two equally bad governments, the only way that you can get the government that you want to win or the party that you want to win is by basically finding common ground and competing on that because if you try to beat them by taking the issue that they're championing and they're better at it than you are you're going to lose to them with their own arguments so therefore you have to find common ground and then use that common ground to differentiate to brand your political party to win and it's very much taken from my pick actually which I could go into my pick from this actually. Go for it. So my pick is a guy called and it's really better if you're British but if you're in any way interested in economics or politics or anything like that, it's all trading you name it. There's a guy called Gary's Economics on YouTube and he is very very smart so he was the youngest, one of the best traders in the world and also the youngest one of the youngest traders in the world working for all the big banks and now he advises banks but he also does youtube um and basically talks about how actually everything in politics is not based on anything about discrimination race whatever else it's all based on inequality and it's the inequality divide between the rich and the poor which uh drives all sorts of resentment with inside um a population and then drives them to to vote and to think in a specific way um it all to do with actually inequality the poor getting poorer and the rich taking everything from the poor so it worth it worth a watch he very It very interesting And he speaks about it in a way that is very much like down to earth It's not, you know, lots of complex terms. He's laying it out for you as a layman or layperson would receive that inclination. Sounds interesting. I guess... How would I... Sorry. One second. You can go ahead. What would I call your unpopular opinion, Anthony? Find common ground. My unpopular opinion is that you can't win a battle by fighting with, like fighting on the same terms, I guess. Something like that. It's basically that you have to find something common. in order to differentiate. Cool. Yeah. All right, Brittany, sorry. Oh, no worries. I guess I might have a controversial opinion for somebody. Cats are better than dogs, in my opinion. I guess depending on who you are. That's what? That's wrong. 100% true. I agree with you, Brittany. And then I guess my pick is going to be if you like cats and you are like me and think cats are better than dogs, find a place that has cats to work from if you can't have cats at home. Like a cat cafe or something? Yeah, that's essentially where I've been working. Right, what do I do with it? Aw, little floofball. You're so cute. Hold him up again. See, I love cats. This is Marla. Hold her up again. Okay, screenshot taken. Oh, my gosh. This is Bruce. Yeah, that's very cute. Oh, I'm hearing a baby screaming in the back. Yeah, I hear a baby screaming. Maybe I should bring the baby on so you can see him. Oh, you should, yeah. Maybe next week. Maybe not when he's screaming, but... Yeah, all right. Picks. So your pick was go to Cat Cat Day. Or some other place. Yes, some place with a cat. And Anthony's Scaries Economics. I have a TV show, Slow Horses. Oh, look at that. Very very good show First episode of the new season comes out today which is the 24th Apple TV Plus Okay It about like a I haven't seen that one. I've heard of it. Yeah, it's with Gary Oldman as the lead actor. And it's about... He basically runs this janky, old... I don't know what you would call it. Like a spy... It's an offshoot. An offshoot of MI6 or something like that. Oh, that sounds interesting. And all the rejects end up there and things happen. It's just like fun. Very funny. Awesome. It's where you go and they can't really fire you, but they basically fire you. Oh, nice. I would enjoy that. We've been watching Star Trek. Star Trek? There's a new one? Or are you re-watching like an old? Well, the one that was out a couple years ago, I think. I don't even remember what it was called, but it's the prequel to the original. Oh, is there a prequel to it? To be honest, I am not a Star Trek fan. Like, I don't know a lot of Star Trek. Like, Captain Kirk is on a different ship, and all the people kind of get introduced as, yeah. An old IRC friend recently met Captain Janeway. He's got some photos with her in some place in New York. Next gen, right? Which is the one with the Ewoks? Where are the Ewoks from? Which Star Trek are you? That's Star Wars, isn't it? Oh, yeah, same thing. No, but this is Star Trek, Anthony. This is Star Trek. That's also very, very insulting to Star Wars fans like myself. Different seasons. Star Trek, the same as Star Wars. Oh, my God. Star Wars, the next generation. And on that note, that's it for this week. That's it. Yeah. Thank you all for listening. I hope you guys enjoyed this as much as I did it was a lot of fun talking to you guys again and I hope we will make this an actual recurring thing and now Anthony is showing a mug that says go away I'm coding go away I'm kidding that's a very old meme by the way that picture classic but yeah alright goodbye everyone and we will talk to you next week bye bye Bye.