 Hello, everyone. Welcome to another episode of Svelte Radio. Today, we're going to discuss what's happened in Svelte these last few weeks, maybe months. But first, some introductions. I'm Kevin. I run Svelte School. I'm heavily involved in the Svelte community. And yeah, that's me. Hey, everyone. I'm Sean. I work at AWS, and I mostly should post on Twitter. that's my job hey i'm anthony i'm a maintainer of svelte and i am the cto of bionc nice and today we're joined by none other than uh hi i'm kareem and uh i work at zenika in france and i'm the co-organizer of uh svelte society de france awesome welcome welcome and you have a cool discord name as well. K6. What is, yeah, what is K6? Oh, it's just because Karen is six letters and K6 is shorter. It's the I18N thing, right? It's Kubernetes. Yeah. Numeronym. There's a term for that, numeronym. Numeronym, I see. I did not know that. Wow. For those who may not know, actually, so Karine basically organized Svelte Society Day. You run Svelte Society France and it was just like beginning to end i wasn't sure if like svelte was ready for like a non-english conference but you just did it and then you got so many submissions you even got rich to to say some french yeah a very memorable moment that's been recorded oh right you can see that online right yeah on the youtube channel yeah i mean i think i think there is a french community i think schneider electric that guy was speaking in french then there was like the the newspaper like was it less echoes yes physical yes and they they do lots of uh infographics uh papers uh some of them are are powered with the svelte animation i think there's also radio france which is the uh well the broadcaster of many different radios and they they use svelte in some part and they have a very uh I just tweeted recently an article by their tech lead, and they have a very interesting and modern stack, including Svelte. Wow. I mean Radio France has clearly sort of got their inspiration from Svelte Radio I mean the name almost the same right Obviously It cool Speaking of Svelte what new with Svelte lately Anyone know? There's some versions. Exciting. So we've definitely started publishing a newsletter. I don't know exactly who's involved in that, but somebody sort of started publishing announcements because I think we mentioned on here that we never announce any new features. We just kind of roll them out. And it's good to sort of get a bit of notice and traction around the version. So there is now a newsletter. I'm terrible because I don't know where it lives or how to see it, but it's probably on the blog. It's on the blog. Right, it's on the Svelte blog, which was abandoned for a long time, but it's on there. It lives again. So I suspect this is like a terrible... Yeah, so Svelte.dev slash blog. The thing about this newsletter is that there's no place to sign up. So I don't know what kind of newsletter there's no sign up. It's like a blog, a news blog. You can't syndicate it either, right? I don't see an RSS. There's no RSS. Unsubscribable. It's to encourage you to get to the site. If you want to contribute to Svelte, you know what to do. Yeah, that would be a very good first thing, actually, because this is stored as a bunch of markdowns, so there's no reason this can't be syndicated pretty easily. Yeah, so new feature-wise, I mean, I mean, everyone's sort of focused on SvelteKit right now, but in the background, there are some new features going into Svelte itself. I think we've had a number of smaller point releases, right? Yeah. With some new features like props, rest props, and custom web components is one of them. And I think there's just some syntactic sugar around the promise, like the await syntax, just to keep your code kind of a bit cleaner. I'm still not a fan putting await in your template. It doesn't feel, it doesn't sit well with me. But for those who use it, I guess it's really kind of a terse way of just making sure your data is ready and then pumping out to the page. So this is good. Yes. Good that that's getting some love. Some other stuff as well. I should mention, Corrine has in the chat. You can speak up, Corrine. I think you found the signup link. Yeah, I think it's velt.substack.com. And there you have the signup for the newsletter. and oh that a very clever link it a different one okay no it it is the same but like we i guess you kind of want the like an official sign up thing because this is run by the guy that writes it I think Okay Which is fine I suppose It good enough Better than us maintaining the separate mailing list. Yeah, okay. Well, that's nice. There's more than I knew about it, to be honest. So now, Anthony, you can subscribe. Yes, now know what's going on. We should be really useful. I'm just very keen on email capture. I'm like, the next conference that we do, we need to have emails. Yeah, I absolutely agree. Activate people. All right. So I guess maybe the one surprise, because I haven't seen this before, the one surprise I had was Rollup Plugin Svelte removed the CSS option. Usually it did. This is surprising. Why? It's not a question I can answer. Again, I didn't work on that plugin. I think, no, I don't know. But yes, I know that you have to specify a specific CSS plugin for it now. It's called a couple of people out because they're just sort of upgrading major versions without realizing that. It caught me out. um we're just trying to diagnose another bug but yes that's the case there'll be there'll be a bug somewhere that tells you exactly why it's being done yeah it's been quite a few changes on that apparently it was discussed in discord and so it's pr number 147 on rollout plugins felt and they just want to handle css within rollout so cool all right fair enough some cosmetic changes i mean i often been thinking about how you know how svelte and tailwind is a little bit hard to set up i've often been thinking about adapting or forking the the rollup or webpack loader and just incorporating it by default so that it would be zero zero setup i don't know if i haven't needed it i mean when i start my next svelte project i'll probably do that but if anyone else wants to steal the idea please be my guest isn't that kind of what svelte kit is sort of doing we're not we're not bigging in post css and stuff like that oh no no but like the no build or sorry no no setup stuff i mean speaking of svelte kit speaking of svelte kit so what's new i can tell you kind of what's going on literally right now as we speak so in terms of what i've been doing i've been working on the versell and the the begin plugins the adapters so those are now for cell works really well the begin one doesn't quite serve static assets yet but it will be very soon because they're being very helpful. Both these providers have their people on our Discord and we're on their Slacks and stuff and they collaborating with us because they really eager to make everything a first citizen So I think both Begin and Vercel will have baked support for SvelteKit and it be a matter of just pushing it and it works rather than the kind of custom community-driven adapters and things like that. So that's pretty exciting. They're both big fans of it. The Netlify adapter has been rewritten as well. So what happened with adapters as a whole was they went from a kind of more manual process of taking the Snowpack output and compiling bits of it, building a manifest, wiring that up into a format that each type of provider could use such as like a lambda one day rich came along and simplified the whole thing and now there's like a builder which just has a bunch of methods you can call like four methods one for static files one for client files one for ssr content and they will just basically provide you all of this stuff as a file system you can then drop in the right place and then you have a lambda to serve it so adapters got radically simpler which should mean that people building their own can do it in I know you probably do it in less than an hour maybe, depending on how well you know the host you're going for. So that's pretty exciting. You won't need any specific knowledge. The API is pretty verbose and straightforward language-wise. In terms of the application, like FeltKit itself, it's just getting more and more polished. So obviously it started out as a bit of a prototype. It's now becoming very much a like for like for SAPA. we're having some discussions around testing strategies and perhaps making testing a first class citizen so we've in the past kind of shied away from it a bit because we don't want to enforce a specific testing methodology or bless something like cypress or qa wolf or any of these providers or libraries because it kind of puts us in a position where we're advertising something without really having any say over it but what we're going to do is provide a way to make it a one-step journey when you want to write tests it's not like well you can test it that's that it's more go and look at these here's some suggestions here's some options one interesting thing that happened was from the actual code base itself of svelte kit typescript was removed entirely not for the supporting on the outside but removed from the code itself and the reason that happened was because when we're prototyping mostly when rich is prototyping actually the types kind of become more of a hindrance than a help. It's like, you know, you wouldn't write a prototype and then cover it in unit tests because it can get in the way. So the plan is now, if we release this into the public domain at some point soon, people might be shocked, where's all the TypeScript gone kind of thing. But what's actually going to happen is we're going to add

 in afterwards when the API is more stable. And then we're going to have, you know, all the types available to make developing on it really, you know, simple and exciting. So, so yeah, there's a few things that have gone on, a few things more controversial than others. What else has happened? You know, it's one of those things that sort of every day I wake up and everything's changed. So it's still a bit like that. Yeah. There's nothing else that I can sort of say that I've been absolutely all over. Yeah. And we're having discussions about CSS. So that's good. And there's also discussion about image processing whether we provide a plugin or not not sure but snowpack can do this sort of stuff so it's possible that maybe there's a chance that there'll be a a sort of guide to say install the snowpack plugin and there you go you can process images cool so that's svelte kit what's happening in the community like uh did you guys see the the website by uh the hyperlab guys it's like they made an e-commerce site with uh some oh crown framework the swedish historic brand of clothing yeah exactly i actually go on to the website sometimes to just experience the speediness and snappiness of it it is really nice it is a really nice site actually on the on that subject i used there um they've written a an error boundary component it's something actually i think personally i'd like to see an added intersvelte but essentially a way of demarcating an area of your page or component where any errors thrown are court and you can handle them independently of everything else they won't bubble up and break the whole site it's a bit of a monkey patch at the moment sort of goes in and changes internals and it you know it might not might not work the same way forever and ever and ever but it's definitely a good indicator of how it can be done and it does work about to start using a production so fingers crossed which we look but that's yeah that's kind of crown framework so that's pretty cool well i was wondering uh we are several people wondering how how people can contribute to the core SvelteKit and how do you maybe screen people is there a process or how does that happen who's contributing so I guess the main contributor right now is Rich it turns out that the way that works best for Svelte and has historically is that Rich goes away it squirrels away and does something and then comes out with a with a product and then people jump on afterwards that's kind of happened it's it's difficult to get a lot of people around something when it in such an early stage with a lot of movement I doing adapters because they quite isolated and separate from the rest of the code base and people are contributing various things So Ben was looking at the TypeScript stuff He doing a lot of build tooling things like that There's lots of other contributors, but the core is mostly Svelte maintainers. The reason being that with probably like 16 of us, 20 of us right now, with just those opinions, it's very hard to come to consensus on stuff. If we then throw in the whole community, it gets really hard to come to consensus. And the whole thing could grind to a halt. so i think until something foundational is there it will be kind of private hopefully not for too much longer the other thing we've done is we have added some contributors from other projects so you asked how outsiders can get in and contribute we've added contributors from projects like oh you know all the kind of projects doing similar things so spiked for example elder js for example anyone with ideas about how something fundamental would work and who already has an implementation of it was invited to come and get on board and join in because they can provide that sort of the insights they've already gained outside of that we've got people from the cell begin they're also they have access to the code and they're able to review it that's mostly to make sure that we're doing things that are sane when trying to integrate with their platforms apart from that there's pretty much no well there's no one else i heard there's no one else uh from outside who's contributing just yet there's a bunch of people trying it out eagerly and being very confused at why it changes day to day but yeah so the idea is to go into a sort of an alpha stage soon where we'll open up the repository the source code i guess and then have some maybe installation instructions and then on top of that we'll have a repository that just handles issues that isn't the main repository so that people can log and triage things that are affecting them these will then be filtered and raised in the main repository where we can handle them uh hopefully that period won't last for too long it'll just be some ironing out some basic issues and then we'll have the the kind of proper open public beta where everyone can jump in and get involved and contribute and i'm sure we'll have a million adapters for everything under the sun very very quickly yeah okay and are you planning on maybe having some kind of guidelines or um i remember back then when i when i was working on Rails, Ruby on Rails. They had that doctrine that was like the 10 commandments of Rails that guides you from what you will do and what you won do what you willing to compromise on That a good idea We don have anything like that traditionally we very very bad at providing contributing guidelines if somebody wants to provide these that's fantastic we definitely would like to have that i think we need it even internally in the maintainers because felt is in that position where it is actually quite a complex concept it's doing something that not a lot of other frameworks are doing and it makes things a lot harder and even within the maintainers there's not a huge spread of knowledge there's a bunch of people who know certain areas so it's definitely something we'd want to have we just don't have it as yet so yeah that's a good way to contribute there hey i suppose it usually goes with with i have the impression that this is a very opinionated language or framework i don't know which term defines it best but it's it's really at the image of rich actually which who is someone very opinionated and so so usually yeah there are probably some boundaries that you don't want to be crossed sometimes there there probably are but i think the word boundaries is in itself maybe a bit a bit anti-rich because if you talk to rich what he'll say is don't try and confine yourself to boundaries think outside the box and that's how you come up with great ideas everything that he does that's kind of against conventions sticking things in node modules that aren't from npm for example that sort of thing they those are not within any boundaries so i think you'd actually invite people to come and give their own opinions and views on things obviously people open prs and things get merged and things don't make sense or wouldn't be good are just not going to get merged and they'll get a lot of feedback saying this probably won't work because of x and y but i think i think any contributing guidelines given would be more along the lines of where to find things, what to get going with, what's easy, what's hard, why things are done in a certain way. And I think you could reverse that maybe by saying, as somebody who wants to contribute, what would you be concerned about? What would you want to know? And from that, maybe we can build contributing guidelines based upon what we know of, you know, how it is. I should probably also mention that you don't have to contribute to Svelte core. You can also contribute in other ways, like organizing meetups. Yeah. Or the Svelte Society website. We got some PRs, right? Yeah. Yeah. We got a PR from MacFJA on GitHub. I don't know their real name, but yeah, we now have a working components filter search thing on the Svelte Society Nice And we need more recipes We just I you know all of us are just volunteering time but it one way to demonstrate that you collaborate in and are interested in svelte and i think that's one way to give back to the community you can answer questions on on discord there's endless questions stack overflow as well i'm not sure people are actually searching on stack overflow but definitely people are asking asking questions for sure and they need to be answered. All right. So this is going to be a pretty short episode this time. I have a couple more announcements that I'll be, I don't know if we're wrapping up. So the Svelte Jobs account came back alive. I think Noah Glazer from San Francisco is running it. So he's doing a meetup on December 9th at 7 p.m. Pacific time. You can sign up on the Svelte Jobs account, I guess. Just look for a Svelte Society Bay Area by Noah Glazer. And then the other announcement that we should probably mention is that the state of javascript survey is going is going on so obviously we're not telling you what to vote for uh if you're listening to this we would like your your opinion to be heard so you can head head to state of js.com particularly this kind of survey has historically been overrepresented by people who are extremely online if you're listening to this podcast if you're on twitter a lot or if you're on discord you're probably extremely online there are a lot of developers who are not represented because they're they just do their jobs and they don't really engage that much on online communities so it'd be great to reach them and yeah stateofjs.com is the link there cool i've done it already yay you have a pic what oh we're doing pics we're doing pics i'll start okay i got this new tablet today it's called a remarkable tablet oh that's like 200 right oh no more like 400 i think wow okay it's like an e-reader but instead of reading you do title or writing on it and like converts text and you can annotate on top of pdfs and stuff it's pretty neat do you draw or do you do diagrams what do you actually use it for so i i just got it today so i i haven't really been using it much but from the little i've done i've done some annotations on pdfs pretty much highlighting stuff or arrows you can draw on it as well it's very cool i'm thinking of asking one for christmas but uh not sure santa can afford it yeah the wait list is huge so i i ordered it back in like three months ago wow and i just got it yeah it is i can go well the rest of you

 think about your picks. I'm going to pick The Mandalorian. It's so good. And it's, yeah, for those who don't know, it's kind of, it takes place, it's a Star Wars TV show made by Disney Plus. And they're releasing it weekly. So it's not like the Netflix style dump the whole season on you at once. And it's just so great to watch something together with other people and just like speculate about what's going on. I can't try not to spoil anything, but it's taking place after the main original trilogy movies and it's just very well executed really good action i run when i watch it i don't even feel like i'm running i just i just uh get a good 30 to 45 minutes of exercise just watching it and it's one of the best tv shows i've seen i'm gonna have to watch that that sounds that sounds pretty good it is good it is good and the soundtrack oh my god so good and the technical side as well have you seen the documentary yeah yeah i'm gonna go because i've got to pick again in tradition i gonna pick something weird so it something i don actually own it something i want to own and i spent a lot of time studying it and i hopefully will own soon And it the Asus PN50 bare bones computer It like a tiny little desktop computer that runs a Ryzen, AMD Ryzen processor. So I'm a massive fan of ARM processors. I really, really want an M1, but I really, really don't want to run OSX. I'm a staunch Linux user and I will not be changed. So I'm going to be sort of stuck for ARM apart from my Chromebooks and stuff for quite a while yet so i'm going to buy this bare bones pc with a with a really fast processor in it and hopefully it will alleviate my problems where i can either podcast code or use discord at one time because my machine has got eight gigs of ram and it's uh it runs out of power pretty quickly so yeah my pick is going to be that machine and hopefully in a future podcast i'll be able to tell you how great it is yeah it's surprisingly cheap it's probably comes at about 300 quid uh so that that's cheaper than my tablet. Yeah, yeah. I mean, it's that cheap. You know, you don't get memory with it or an SSD, but I mean those things are cheap and probably people already have an SSD anyway you know and memory is another hundred quid or something so again you spending probably half what you might spend on a laptop and it seems to be very very very fast so looking forward to that new dev machine yep i'll uh check it out corinne do you have do you have a pick uh well yes i i uh it's been a long time since i've watched a tv show on netflix and the last one i saw i liked it a lot it's the Queen's Gambit, you've probably came across that one because it's really very popular. Well, I could watch it because it's quite short. It's only seven episodes. And that's the story of that badass chess player, the woman, a woman that plays chess at a very high level. And it takes place in the 60s and the 70s. And all the story is nice. You can really get into it without knowing anything about chess And I think there was a publication stating the influence in that theory on the record sales of chess boards right after it was released And the last point I really loved about the series is the soundtrack and the takes place in the 60s and the 70s and the colors and the graphic treatment of that series, the vintage settings and the vintage looks. It's really great and refreshing. It was nice. I really liked it. I'll have to check it out. yeah an interesting note on on that i saw on twitter last night actually they cast a transgender actress as the teacher in the school just as a playing a woman just just that's it no problem at all there was just no roar about it there was no you know special treatment like that and people thought that was fantastic just so so natural and great so that's that's pretty exciting as well kudos to them all right so that's it for for this episode of the svelte radio thanks for joining us kareen thank you very much for having me we hope you can join us again for a longer episode maybe in the future but yeah goodbye everyone thanks for listening bye bye bye