 In this action you're going to learn how to remove a tweet using a delete request. But I thought you could only use get and post method for form, I hear you ask you gleeful master of the web arts. You're right, and I'm not going to pretend I understand the history, but I'm going to show you how we can use the delete request. So the problem we have here, if we go to source, routes, and then we go to home and our endpoints, right, let me close the sidebar. If we look here, we already have a post method. So if we do another one, how do we know it's delete? We can maybe do this with using a hidden field that has a delete value, but we can do this another way using SvelteKit. So SvelteKit lets you override the HTTP method by changing the config and for the action we're going to add a HTTP verb at the end like home and then we're going to pass a parameter method equals delete but we still use post for the method right and that's how the server is going to understand we're sending a delete request. So this is the form inside tweet.svelte we going to remove the tweet form so you can see we have the action here the method is using post and here repassing a sneaky input type hidden with the name ID value tweet id so if i press ctrl p and if i find tweets wealth we already have this here so here is the action and the hidden field with the tweet id so we just need to implement the endpoint right so if we go here to the example before that we need to change this in the config so this is how simple this is and in older tutorials you might see people using hooks for this but that's no longer required because we can just change it in the config and Svelte makes it super simple. So let me just close this out. Keep the endpoint open if you already have it open. So inside the Svelte config we can go here and after where Vite is here we can just add this. So we can say method override. We get nice auto completion. We can say allowed and we can just specify delete. So we need to restart our server because we changed the config. So press ctrl c to kill the terminal and then just start development server back again and everything should work the same in a second and yeah it works so let add the endpoint now let me just close the terminal it easier to read so let add the delete endpoint so we can go here i going to scroll up a bit so we have space export const remember delete is our reserved keyword in javascript so we use dell and again it's request handler and it's async and we're going to destructure a request let's create the function we're going to get the form await request form data then we're going to get the tweet id form get and this is another reason why Tyscript is awesome because for example it says here that this is a string we're going to expect a number later for our schema right so we can do number like this and cast it but a shorter way is just doing plus and that's going to make sure that's a number. So you can say await Prisma tweet delete and we can just say where ID is equal to the tweet id right and that how simple this is so we can return a status of 303 since we using a post request and nothing changed right we're not linking to a new resource we return 303 and for the headers we can say location is home. Yeah. So we can save this. So if we go back to home, we can try deleting our hot take and it should work. So let me just open developer tools and always log all these values out. Look at the network tab, inspect things. Don't be afraid. Even if you don't understand everything, you're going to learn a lot just by doing that. So yes. So let me just delete this. And awesome. It removed it and it refreshes the page. So if we go here, we can see the method was delete. We got our 303 back. Here is the payload. And yeah, we have a preview that's nothing as it should be. And we have our home. That's what we have currently. So yeah, that's how simple it is to override a HTTP request method using SvelteKit.