 Hey, do you feel like Frodo going to Mordor to destroy the ring because that's exactly how I feel after recording this entire session of videos? So congratulations! That was a long one, hope you learned and feel empowered to build something. You created a full stack app without knowing backend, databases or having to use SQL. You can deploy this project to anywhere, but if you want to deploy it to somewhere like Vercel because you're using a file system database, you can use something like Supabase and just change the connection string, your database is going to work the same, and just point to your repository inside Vercel and you're going to have it hosted no problem. So there's a lot more to learn about SvelteKit so hit the documentation or watch some videos. And remember you have to practice so pick a project you're interested in and get comfy reading the documentation and asking questions in the Svelte discord. Before I leave I want to talk about the future of SvelteKit. So if we go to the SvelteKit github we can see it's 80% complete near the release which is going to be very soon so there shouldn be any breaking API changes at the moment but I want to show you something interesting So if I scroll down here remember how we did progressive enhancement and we had to do the swelled action ourselves but if we scroll down here let me see where is it Let me just find it. Control F. I'm pretty sure here it is. Yeah, there it is. So we can see this was opened recently. And here is a suggestion by Rich Harris already for implementing the uppercase form component for progressive enhancement so in the future if you're watching this video this might already be part of swell kit but we don't know yet right so here's the proposal and i also want to show you what i'm excited about so if we go to remix remix is an awesome framework right now that currently uses react but what's awesome about remix is unlike other meta frameworks like next js remix is basically just a web framework and it doesn't care about the view layer which means that Remix in the future is going to support other frameworks like Preact, Svelte, etc. But let me show you some similarities For example in Remix we have a similar function that load but in Remix it a loader And in Remix your component is the endpoint So when you use Remix you don even have to create an endpoint but use the same component which is really awesome. And this is what SwellKit is taking cues from, and you can expect similar functionality. So this is really awesome. This might look familiar. So yeah, so don't get overwhelmed and listen to the tweets and memes from people on Twitter, like, oh, another JavaScript framework is going to learn, etc. No, this is really awesome. this is what i'm really excited about it's not really being excited about new shiny things because that passes right but something like remix and swell kit is really something that changes the way how we're going to build web applications and sites so this is what's more exciting to me and not being brand new and shiny because that passes right but this is what's really awesome and what's really changing in the front end development scene so you can see this is really similar to what we had and they using a loader here which is awesome and if you didn know you can get remix in svelkid because some absolute mad lad or mad lass made a wheat plugin called sve mix so you can literally do that same thing in svelte kit so we basically get this plugin and then you can use your component as an endpoint so you can see here is the loader data same as remix and you can do everything inside not sure if i would use this because it's not blessed by the authors and this is in beta but this is really awesome how someone just made this right so maybe play around with this if you're interested and lastly i want to help you continue your education so i highly suggest you watch lihao tan on youtube because he makes some really great in-depth videos on svelte and svelte kid so lee's a contributor to svelte and he really knows what he's talking about so you can learn about whatever you want in depth from him but yeah thank you for watching and see See you in the next one!