 Hey, welcome back. In this section we're going to learn how to use global styles, nested layouts, and catching and showing errors. But before I start, I want to update the path alias in SwellKit because I prefer to use the root to be able to access the source folder from anywhere in the project. SwellKit by default exposes to the lib root, but I prefer to use the components folder for components and the lib folder for third-party libraries. So let's open the SwellConfig, and we can just go over here. You can copy this entire file, or you can just go to the adapter here you can paste this we need to import the path so we can say import path from path and that should work we can save so we also need to update the tsconfig so typescript knows where the files are located so we can copy this part as you can see here is the lib defined you just copy this part over remove this one save and lastly let's just update the prettier rc because i prefer to not use semicolons. You can say false and for the print width I can say 60 so you have an easier time reading the code because if I go here now and if I save this it's going to format it. Same for this file and it's awesome. So we can close these files and next let's change the favicon so we can open source, go to the app, let me just hide the sidebar and we can copy this over and And this is really an awesome trick if you're working on a fun project you can use favfarm and use an emoji for the favicon which is really fun. Yeah so we can just remove that and this should all work. So let's see pnpm run dev and if we update our page we can see welcome to SvelteKit and everything works great. So next we have some global styles if we go here and since this is a SvelteKit tutorial I want to focus on SvelteKit instead of styles because it would be here for hours so we're going to be mostly copying over the styles, but I'm going to try and explain the styles when it's important for the example I'm showing, right? So we can go to the global CSS and we can just copy that over. And in our project, let me close this, we can create the source, create a styles folder slash global CSS, and we can paste the styles over. So if you see here, I'm just importing a font from google fonts and then i have some resets and in the root i have the font sizes the spacing and the colors predefined so our styling and everything is nice and consistent across the project and here i have some custom styles for the scroll bar so it looks nicer on the html i'm using the percent trick for the rams because i want rams to be based on 10 pixels because it's easier to work with for example if you type 1.2 rams is going to equal to 12 pixels right instead of having to calculate that one RAM is 16 pixels and then it gets really confusing right So we have some resets here for label input We have some button classes button hover nothing special some utility classes responsive placeholder We're going to use later. Yeah, so let's just save this file and we can even close it. Let me show the sidebar again. Let's close this. Another thing I want to remind you, as I said at the beginning of the series, that you should go to the project and you should copy over the images. The only thing I've done here, I removed the favicon because we're not going to need it. And just copy over the profile and the images we're going to use across the project and it should be good. So yeah, that's it. So let's continue and update the index page. So this is the first page you're going to see when you open SoilKit in the development server. So we can update it here. We're going to add some markup and some simple transition. So this is currently what we have, right? It matches here. But let's just first add a script tag. we can say language typescript even if you're not using typescript we can say fly from svelte transition and to update the title for the page we can use svelte head and this is going to let us use any tags we want so we can say twitter and this should update yeah so we can see here it says twitter and this is awesome so this is going to be a simple animation that's just going to fly in and fly out and we need the duration because this is 250 milliseconds and the duration has to be longer so it doesn't overlap with the other animation right so we can just say main yeah let's just say this and let's add the class of container we can say in fly then i'm going to pass the parameters right i'm going to say minus 100 the duration is going to be 250 milliseconds delay 300 milliseconds we can copy the same thing over go to the beginning we can say out so in is when the component is created right and out when it's destroyed so we can keep this the same and we don't need a delay here so let's say the section originally I added this entire thing because I also wanted to include authentication but it quickly got out of hand how many things we would have to cover and learn so yeah maybe for another video right so we can say h1 class title and let me just copy this over so we have a Twitter here we can say p class text we can say share how to take with everyone. And then let's add another section, class login and then we going to have class of button and it just going to link to home and let me just copy over that part so we can go to our feed and that's it for the main and let me just copy over these styles over so you don't have to type this out just go here i'm going to add the styles let me just refresh and currently we don't have global styles but we're going to add it in a second but here there's nothing special we just have the container lately i'm trying to use grid for most things because it's really awesome and simple to do layouts and this is the text and this is a simple media query so this really isn't that bad you can even use sass if you want but i prefer to put all the media queries at the bottom i really don't feel I need SAS in a component-based framework like Svelte and etc. Oh yeah, another awesome thing is like, see, Svelte is so awesome, I just take these things for granted. Let's just look at this link, right? This is just a normal link that just works like regular HTML, right? I can't count the amount of frameworks I've tried where using something simple is a link is just awful. It looks like a component, it's wrapped around something or in some frameworks, it's it's really complicated right well let's just appreciate for a moment how awesome this is this is just a regular link and you don't have to think about it and if this is your first framework forget about what i'm talking about just appreciate svelte right so for the global styles we could go up here and we could import it here but it wouldn't work for our other pages and layouts so we should use a layout component that svelte kit provides us in other frameworks you might be used to creating a layout component in which you reuse your navigation styles and so on but in svelte we use the double underscore layout.svelte component for repeating content and then slot inside to catch everything else. And files starting with underscores are ignored as pages in SvelteKit. So let's see how this works in practice. So if I scroll down here, we can go to routes. Let me just hide the terminal. And inside routes, where your index.svelte file is, we can create new file, We can create layout.svelte. We can close the sidebar and say script language typescript. And we can import the styles. So we can say root styles global CSS. And we can say the slot. So this should work. If you go to our page, awesome. Since the viewport is squish, it's using the responsive view. So I can zoom out so you can see it. And here is the landing page. So that's really awesome. And that's how simple it is to have nested layouts. This is going to catch everything else. You can read slot as just catch the rest of the site and we can nest layouts and break layouts if you have to. So for example, we're going to have a specific home layout with the pages but the settings page might be different So we going to need to break it to have a similar but slightly different layout But also what happens if you visit a page that doesn exist So we can try going to for example oops and this is kind of an ugly error right like this is really hard to read etc so let's improve that. Let's learn how to add error pages. So SwellKit provides a default error page but it's hard to read so we can do better and we can add a custom error page that's going to show if a page fails to load. So how do you add custom error pages? So in the same path, we can add an error page, say double underscore error swelped. And if you look at this code, this is just from the documentation. If you read it here, I just copied it over. But here it's using, if you see this, this is using like normal JavaScript, JS doc is what this is called. Instead of using TypeScript if you want to give it types. But I prefer to use TypeScript, so I'm going to use that. Yeah, and then we can just create a script with a context of module. So context module means that this is going to run before the component is created, right? So we can say language TS and then we can import the type for it. Error load from SailJS Kit. And then we can say export cons. Let me just close the sidebar. Load. We're going to use the type error load. and we're going to destructure error and status from it and then we can just return props that's going to be available on our page it's going to be the title use the backticks you can say status and then error message and that's really it so we can catch this title props in the regular script tag so if we go here script, language, that's it. We can export let title, we can give it a type, even if we don't need to. And here's where we can control how the error is displayed. So we can say dot class, if we use emet, and if we press tab, I'm going to get a div with a class of error. Actually I should fix this, right? And then I'm going to add a title. So we can output what we got from the error, right? And then let's add the image. And we can give it a prop here, the source from our static folder right, webp and the alt is going to be surprise cat. And let's just copy over the styles, even though there's not a lot of them, just to make our lives easier. And then let's save the error page, but first let me go here. And we can refresh the page and we already have a nicer display for ourselves and for our users that are using the site. So you're going to learn some of the fundamental concepts behind SvelteKit and we're just going to keep learning more, so let's continue to the next one.