 Hey welcome back! In this section we're going to learn how to reset a layout. I want to show you how awesome nested layouts are inspired by the Twitter settings. So if we go look at Twitter here I am zoomed out so I get the desktop view and if you go to settings here you can see if you go through the settings it appears on the right side which is really simple to do with single page applications but this is also really simple to do with SwellKit routes. So I'm going to show you that right now if we go to our app we can see right now if you go to the settings there's nothing here. So first let's start by creating it so we can go to the source routes and then we can create a new one inside home so we can go home and then let's create a folder settings in excel let me close sidebar let's add a head with a title where's the auto completion here we go settings and yeah let's save it and that's it for this so we can go here and now we have our settings so let me just close Twitter. We're already distracted enough, right? So let's create some random pages like you see in the Twitter settings. If I scroll down here, we can just paste the content from here. So here in the settings folder, and we're going to create four pages, personalization, data, cookies, and resources. So yeah, let's start by adding personalization. So of course, you can name this whatever you want and type anything you want in here because this is just an example. So nothing important. Yes, so you can close personalization. We can move on to data. Let's copy data. Data. Swelt. Let's see. Then cookies. Go settings Cookies Delicious Save this My mom always asks me this total journal my mom always asks me what are these cookies the sites are offering like can you eat it and etc Just a random tangent, it's really funny. So if I go to resources, and yeah I can create resources, soiled. And then let's save it. yeah i know right moms they're awesome yeah okay so let me close that and to reset the layout we can instead of creating layout.swelt we can create layout reset cell so in settings and let me just go back so because we're doing this our goal is basically so you can see here is our layout for home so we have the navigation on the left here is our feed here is a sidebar and basically the layout is the same but slightly different and that's why we want to reset it because we still want our links here we still want our feed but we don't want this sidebar here we want the content to display here so that's what we're going to do and why we're resetting the layout so yes so we can go to our settings and we can create a new layout so we can say layout reset swelt and then we can close the menu let's add a script tag language type script and then we're going to do the same trick of knowing what the active link is right if we visit it so we can say page from app stores and then we can import the navigation from here and we're going to do the same thing you're going to have a reactive path value and we're going to get the path name like this yeah so we can add our navigation nothing complicated you can say container now we can say navigation close it let me just space it out so it more readable at least it easier for me i don know about you settings yes so we can close that and inside we can create a title settings then we're going to have privacy and let's add inside h2 privacy. Then we're going to have a link. So we can say it links to home settings personalization. Language is really hard, right? Yeah, so let me just make space like this. And then we can do the same trick. So we can say class active. And then let me just make it more readable. Path. You can really turn this into variables so you don't have to type a lot of these things out right personalization and yet that should be it so let me just look let me just add the description here personalization and data go here yeah and then let's add more of them so if you just save it it's going to format and let me just make the formatting prettier sometimes prettier has a mind of its own right and then we can do this so let's see we have have personalization, we have your Twitter data. So let's just move this over two times. So we have settings, personalization, and then we're going to have home settings, data, have home settings, data and then we going to say your Twitter data Actually I should probably say Twitter just so you don infringe on that copyright but who cares right So you can say home settings cookies, home settings cookies, and we can say cookie preferences. So one thing I didn't do right here, it's kind of like my new details that doesn't matter, but yeah, so we can add another section that's going to be general. So let's add section general. I'm going to add general. So yeah, so let's just copy the link we had before. So let's see the path is going to be home, settings, resources, we can say resources, then we can say here additional resources. And then as we see, the section is done here. The main is done here. Let me just make space. Here's going to be the aside we had before. So this is where we're going to pass whatever else we have, right? This is where our content is going to show. And this is really simple to do with nested layouts. So let's just copy over the styles. As we see, they're slightly different. Here we're having the same container. We're doing slightly different things. Some responsive styles. Special. Yeah, so we can save this. and then if we go to the settings page and if we go to personalization and data we can see it shows on the right and this is really awesome but just one thing don't use the mobile view because i forgot to include the responsive styles it's going to be our little secret okay so yeah that's it nestle layouts are really awesome and see you in the next one