 Hey, welcome back. So in this section, we're going to be working on the home layout, and you're going to add the home layout for the navigation, the main content, and the sidebar. And I'm also going to show you the real power of nested layouts. So if we go to our page, and we go to the feed, which is going to be at home, we get our nice error because it doesn't exist. So yeah, let's create it. So inside source routes, we're going to create a new folder home and an index.svelte. And if we add a title here, home, it's going to appear here. So that's really awesome. So let's just add the swelter head here, send a title that's going to be home, let's add this text feed and then we're just going to copy over the styles. Yeah, so that's it, nothing special. So for this project I used a lot of SVG icons so I decided to create an icon component because the markup was getting hard to read but then I realized it would be a great learning opportunity to show you the power of TypeScript. So we're going to create a components folder and add an icon.swell component. So inside source, you can click new file if you want to do this on VS Code and you can create components. So this is going to create a folder and then you can say icon.swell so it's going to create the file and that's a nice short tip. So yeah, let's just copy the contents because this isn't related to SwelltKit, just an icon component. So let's just save it and let me just briefly walk you through it. So this is just an object containing all of the icon data. So here is the icons, we have Home, Profile, Settings, etc. If we scroll down here we're passing a name prop to the component and then it's going to pick it from the object and then it's going to return an SVG component. So here is nothing special but the secret sauce is right here in the type. Type Icon Type Key of Type of Icon. So if we hover over this we can see it has all the keys of the icons. So we know what to type with great auto completion because usually what you would see people do is something like this. They would say home and then they would say maybe settings. But you have to update it every time you change or remove an icon. So this is really simpler. I will show you the true power of the type said. So let's see this in action just so I show you. So we go to feed here and then we can start typing icon, press enter so we can get a nice auto import. and let's just close it and if you don't have auto completion up you can just press ctrl spacebar and you can see already typescript doing work we have height name width slot but this gets next level when we start typing the name so we can start typing banana and then it yells at us because it's saying that banana doesn't exist for this and this is right so we can press ctrl spacebar again and then we can see all the options available for us yeah so we can type what we want and then And it's again complaining because we don't have other required properties, so we need to pass height width and etc And this is really the power of TypeScript because it saves you from having errors while you writing the code and not having to constantly refresh and fix your easy mistakes right So we can remove this because it just an example And then for the next part, we're just going to create the navigation svelte component and the trending component. So we can go here, we can open it. Yes, let's just go to the components. Let's create a new one. I'm going to say navigation svelte. and here you're also going to learn something nifty let's say language ts and then to know what page we're only going to import the page from the app store store that holds value stores so we can also import icon from root components icon svelte then we're going to have a reactive value path and then since this is a store we have to use the dollar sign to get the value and then we just type URL path name which also we have great auto completion and that's it so we can use this to know what the active link is and apply a class yes we can create an aside let's create a container it's going to be a navigation list items so we can let me just make this more readable we can create the first one so this is going to go to the landing page it has a class of of logo and let me just copy over the emoji yeah so that's it so we can copy this over let's create a new one so here we're going to have class active and this is the magic thing so it's going to apply a class active if the thing on the right is true so if path matches home going to work great like So we can just say home, remove this part because we don't need it. So just struggle along like this. So we can use the icon. So we're specifying the width here because the SVG would get unwieldy if styles fail for whatever reason. So it would take the entire screen, which you don't want. So you can use the completion to get home. And then we can add the span home. And we can just repeat this for the other elements. other elements it's going to be great well the first one was home right so the next one is going to be home profile your name and this is hard-coded because we're not using authentication but if you had authentication you can grab this value from the session and it would work great yeah so the first one was home and the rest one is home profile your username so let's say profile and here it's also going to say profile so let's copy this over we have two more I think yes after profile we have home settings and we can update this easily get our auto completion settings its name is settings also let copy this over again And the last one should be about So you can say about Let's get this here. About. And that should be it. So let's just save it. And then after the now, we're going to add a button, which is just a placeholder. So it matches the original design. it won't have any functionality say button tweet has a tweet value and then let's copy over the styles because there's nothing special just some layout and responsiveness yeah so let's just copy this over and that's it for the navigation so of course you don't have to make these components but it makes things easier to read and that's mostly the reason why i'm doing it so we can add another trending so let me just close this and the icon one because we don't need it Let's add another component. Going to be trending, Svelte. And this is just a placeholder, so there isn't anything interesting about this. We can add a container. We can add a placeholder. We don't need the div part here. So the placeholder comes from global CSS, it's right here, so it's going to give us a nice skeleton placeholder, right? Yeah, and then we have the div here. You can add a section, title, trends for you. Then we can copy this over. Inside VS Code, I'm not sure if the shortcut is same for you, but you can press Shift Alt to copy the line. So we can say 1, 2, 3. But we can just copy it over the normal way if you want. So we can say show more. And then let's add one more section. Who to follow. And it's going to be the same thing. So let's copy it over. So usually I would use a pound for a placeholder, but this is another thing why ESLint is so awesome, because if you make a genuine mistake like this, it's going to say, hey, are you drunk? Like, what are you doing? You're putting hash pounds in links. Are you crazy? And okay, so you got me. You got me. So thank you. So let's just copy over the styles, which are again, nothing special, just some media queries. that's it so we can close this and we can now create the layout that's going to use our already existing nested layout where we have global styles so really nested layouts are like a russian nesting doll which is really awesome and you have to play around with it to understand it so make sure your mental model matches what you think a nested layout is and after you get some practice it's going to make sense to you so inside home we're going to create layout svelte and then And let's just say the script tag. And because we're lazy, we're not going to import it by head, of course, because we're classy like that. We're going to use auto imports. So we can say container. Then you can start typing navigation and it's already going to auto import for us, which is awesome. Then we going to have main with a class of feed And here is where our tweet settings about page etc is going to go So you can say slot which is like meaning everything else is going to be here like before right so you can say trending let's auto import that which is awesome this saves us a lot of typing and then let's just copy over the styles because again nothing special just on css grid and layouts which you can look at if you want. It's always interesting. So let me just open this before I save. And awesome! We have our entire layout which is great and it looks weird because I'm zoomed out here as you can see but if I zoom to 100% we get the responsive layout right. So let me just go to 90% so you can see the desktop layout because I want to show you something awesome. So I want to show you the real power of nested layouts. So imagine if a part of your site explodes it won't bring the entire thing down but just the part that failed with a useful error message. And this is unlike any other framework I use that doesn't have nested layouts. And this is the real power of nested layouts and I'm genuinely surprised why no one is talking or excited about this. But let me show you what I mean. So we can add individual errors for individual pages. So for example we can go to home and we can add the error page here. But before that actually let me just show you. If we go here, and if I'm in the index for example, if I do something bad like here, let's say, here is how we're usually going to see, so I think this is context module, let me just check, I always confuse this, yeah it's context module, we don't even have to specify a language, so we can just say export const load, and we can just throw an error, so we can say throw new error oops yeah and then we can see what is complaining well parameter of type because it accidentally imported it yeah okay so if we refresh the page the entire thing is going to explode that's what you usually use to to other frameworks right so we can go to the home page and we can add error self make sure you have double dashes as it can get you and then when i go here this is the same as the other error page so we can go to the other error page we can copy it over until the styles i think it's slightly different so let's just close this so this is the same like i have in this example we get the title from here and we use a different gif we use dancing we use person Dancing and the styles are slightly different like it doesn't take the entire page. Yes, so we can copy it over. And let me just go here and I'm going to save this instead of our entire site exploding. We can just manage the error here so we can even refresh it and we get our error message that happened. So this is what's going to get caught. So for example, we can change oops to banana and this should update. I refresh this. Awesome. So this is the real power of nested layouts. Thank you.