 Hey friends, I hope you enjoyed building this application with me so far, but before I go, let's clean up the endpoints a bit. And this part is completely optional, so you don't have to do it if you don't want to. And I'm going to go quicker through this since it's nothing essential, right? So basically, we can have a look at our endpoints. So we can go to source, routes, I have them listed here for you so you don't get confused because there's a lot to go through, right? Yeah, so inside home we have the first one there's the index and then we have the like endpoint then we can go inside profile we can open the user ts and then let's see we have the user status so we can open this one too right and let's just hide the sidebar so this works fine but there are some repeating parts and it would be better if we had a separate place where we can store our api right so we can see here our code and we have a lot of repeating parts for some sections not all right so we're going to create a prisma ts file yes another file i named prisma ts in my infinite wisdom i know so we can go to the sidebar and let me just collapse everything so it easier to pay attention So inside source so we can create utils prisma ts and then instead of me copy pasting things here for half an hour, I already done the entire work. So we can just go here, you can copy over this code, but let me just briefly walk you through it. So basically this is our file that holds the API. Let's see what this is complaining about, root utils date. Oh, because we probably placed it inside lib. So here we get our tweets, so we know where it is in one central place and what's going on. And as you see before here where we like the tweets and we repeat this multiple times across our endpoints. So we just have a function here, get like tweets. Yeah, get like tweets. And then we have get tweets, which has params. And this record type just means this is an object because it would be really unfriendly to TypeScript if we We typed it like this and we can say string here or whatever. TypeScript is going to complain and it's going to tell you to use a record. So yeah, we're just using a record. And then let's see if there's something else worth noting. Yeah, get like tweets. So we really have split up the logic so everything is easier. We can see here creating the tweet and yeah removing the tweet liking the tweet And in the future when you need to update this you know in what file you have to do that and it really simple and reusable So here we get the user profile here and nothing special Yeah, so let's just update the code from our application. So if I close this, let's first start with index, so we can just copy this entire file, and so we can just copy this over, and it's more beautiful. So we're just importing everything from utilsprisma, and this is right here, so we have our post, This is so much nicer to this post, create, tweet, remove, tweet. This is it, nothing special. So we can do the same thing for the likes. Go here. Let's go here. And that's it. This is also updated. So now we can go to the next one, to the profile. And another thing I want to mention is why I did it this way, because I really don't want people to get under the illusion that when you're writing code like this, oh, you know where everything belongs, everything looks clean and perfect. no like i spent like hours working on this demo in project and i spent hours more making sure it's coherent and makes sense and then hours more writing and formatting it in a way that it's easier to teach to you because if you write and teach code in the same way that you write it it would really be a confusing mess and no one would benefit from it because it would be five hours long and you would barely get anything done right Tutorials are like a cooking show, so just learn the concepts and you have to go and practice on your own instead of just me telling you what to do, right? I'm just saving you time in the hours that you have to research and helping you understand the higher concepts so you know what's possible, so you can see, ah, I'm inspired by this i can make this etc and then you can run to the races and that's really the goal of what i'm trying to do here with this tutorial yeah so enough talking let's just copy it over if we're on the right one yeah so look how much simpler this becomes we can just structure profile tweets from get user profile and then for the last one let me just close this yeah we can just remove everything and look how much cleaner this is So let's just test nothing broke. Somehow it's paranoid, right? Yeah, so let's see if everything works. If we go here, we can add a tweet. We can like, unlike it. Let's go to the profile. We should also be able to do it from here. We should be able to remove it from here and we don't get redirected because we implemented that in our form using progressive enhancement like. Yeah, so you can go to the homepage and that's pretty much it. So I hope you enjoyed this so far and catch you in the next one.