 Hey, welcome back! Let me give you a tour of SvelteKit. So the only thing you're going to need is Node.js. So install that. For the code editor, I'm using Visual Studio Code, but you can use whichever editor you prefer. If you're on a potato and want to follow along, you can do that. I highly recommend StackBlitz. So just log in with your GitHub account. It's completely free. Go to full stack and you can start a SvelteKit project. The only thing I'm not sure about is if the database part is going to work, but you have a full Node.js environment with a terminal, so I think it should. but let me know if you're using StackBlitz if it works. At the time of writing this post, SwellKit is near its 1.0 release, so there shouldn't be breaking changes, but always practice reading the documentation. The post is easy to update, but videos not so much, so always follow the documentation whenever you're following a tutorial or anything. So yeah, that's it. And you can learn a lot, and it's really something you have to practice. We can start a fresh SwellKit project. So on the left, I'm in a tutorial project folder, and I have the integrated terminal open. So another thing, I'm using PNPM for the package manager, but it's the same as npm command so when you see me type pnpm just type npm and it's going to work the same. Yeah so we can start by pnpm init svelte at next and then you're going to get some questions. This is beta software, expect bugs and missing features but Svelte is already used in production everywhere so it fine I going to leave this blank because I already inside a folder and for the app template we going to choose a skeleton project we going to use typescript but it purely optional if you following along you can just ignore the types in the tutorial and everything is going to work the same we're going to use es lint for code linting es lint is like a spell checker for your code and it gives you nice warning so yes please prettier is also amazing it helps you format your code so you don't have to think about it which is awesome and in your vs code settings you can enable format and save if you want so every time you save is going to format your document so you're going to say yes and we're going to say no to playwright which is just the testing configuration that's recently new you can just say no and it's going to generate everything so we just need to install the dependencies so i can say pnpm i the same thing with npm and i shortcut for install So you can say PNPM I and just give it a second. Awesome. And now you can run the project by typing PNPM run dev and that should open on localhost 3000. So if I go here, let me just close all these tabs. Go here, localhost, you should see this. Awesome. So the SwellKit folder holds what makes SwellKit work and the output of your project. You can peruse this and don't be afraid to browse files and folders you don't understand about because you can learn a lot on accident and it really awesome For example if you go to the runtime and the components we can see here the template files for the error pages and for the layout pages we going to be using later So this is really awesome to dig into, right? And even all modules is fun to poke around if you want. And then we have the source folder, which is the place where you're going to store your source code. The app.dts is just some TypeScript for SvelteKit, so you can ignore that. The important one is app.html that Svelte is going to use as the template for your pages, so here it's going to populate the head and the Svelte body, and you shouldn't change this unless you want to add something harmless like a favicon, then it's fine. And then here is the best part, the routes are pages in your project because at the heart of SvelteKit is a file system based router. So for example, as I say in the post, for example if you create an about.svelte page, If we say h1 about, if you go to our project, it's really going to map to the URL. So you can say about and we get about. And that's really awesome. I love this feature. And this is the same in Next.js and these other popular frameworks. So yeah, I'm going to show you how it's all really similar. And then we have a static folder that hosts our favicon and other things like images if you want. And that's always going to be exposed at the root. For example, it should work. So this is like root and then it's PNG and it should give the icon, right? So that how this works which is awesome And then we have package that includes the script for our project We have some development dependencies here which isn relevant to us The only thing you should be aware is the type module because we're using ES modules. So instead of giving you confusing names in theory, so for example, we're in like, in a weird transition period in Node, where it's transitioning from common JS to ECMAScript module. So you might be familiar with this syntax called package require package or whatever. And that's really common JS because JavaScript before didn't have any module system, etc. But the ES system is what you're most likely going to see. Import package from package. And this is something that for a long time had to be pre-bundled for you because browser didn't natively support this type of syntax, which now they do. And now it's trying to transition from that period. So we're having growing pains right now. And that's what type modules means in your project. We don't really have to think about this. is just really important because when you're going to use some node modules etc you might run into issues if they're using the common js import syntax so yeah if we scroll down here here is where i mentioned this and let me just close this and for the last one we have the ts config which you can ignore because svelte kit has everything configured for you outside the box and there's like really a lot of tinier small unimportant files here that you aren't going to touch besides get ignored in prettier RC. So that's it for this episode of Svelte Kid Crips.