 It would be sweet if you had some page transitions for the main content, but we don't really want to animate things such as the navigation and the sidebar, so we really just want to animate the main part when we're navigating across these links, right? So we can do that, creating a transition component, and then we're going to wrap it around the slot component in the home layout, right? So we need to know when the URL changes, which we can use the page store value from Svelte to pass as a prop to the transition component, which is going to have a key block, the same trick we used in the previous video and it's going to destroy and recreate the content when the url changes so we're going to first create the component inside components so let's go into source components and then let's create transition swelt and then let's create it say script language typescript you know it and then we can specify the prop it's going to be a url of type url so here we're going to specify the key block let me just close the key block and here is going to be our animation so we can say it's going to be a div and it's just going to have a slot that's going to get past whatever it is inside right and thanks to the key block is going to unmount and mount it then again right yeah so we can just create the animation same for the landing page in fly we're going to say y minus 50 going to say duration 250 delay 300 milliseconds and again to reiterate we need a delay so when we doing an entering animation for another page it doesn overlap right So we can add the same thing here and we don need the delay So yeah that it And let me see. Yeah. So we just need to specify the animation. If we go here, we can say import fly. Let's see how powerful. Oh, no, the completion shame. Sometimes it works. Sometimes it doesn't, right this is how simple it is to do page transitions in SvelteKit so let's add it if i go here let me just search for ctrl p and just type layout and let's see our layout is in home right so we want source routes home beautiful yeah so we can import so we know what page we're on we can import the page pro from app stores which is wonderful and then your side are main here we have our slot here we just need to grab this this is our main content and so we can use that component we can say transition which should be imported we're going to pass it the prop since it's a store we're going to say page url and it's going to rerun right let's just pass it like this and yeah this should be it so let me go back and let me refresh for good measures but let's go back to our landing page. So if I zoom out to 90%, we can share a hot take, look at the animation. Oh, that's sweet. Chef's kiss, right? Then you can go profile settings about, that's already so much smoother. And you can see how simple this is to implement. So catch you in the next one.