 Welcome, everyone, to the next Svelte Radio podcast. We have some interesting topics for you today. A new version of MD Svex, some new courses and other fun stuff. But we'll start with self-introductions. So I'm thinking maybe, Sean, you go first. Hi, this is Sean calling in from Singapore. i don't know if you're doing super short introductions yeah so what do you do you you uh you're writing a book oh right i'm now i'm now uh you know a few a couple weeks into my new job at um aws um still kind of learning the ropes uh working on aws which is sort of like back end for front end developers. And yeah, it's pretty exciting. We don't have Svelte support yet, but I just got an issue this week requesting for it. And it'd be interesting to work on that. I mean, no promises though. Yeah, I'm actually using AWS Amplify in the Svelte project. Oh, really? Oh, that's awesome. Yeah, I'll probably show you. Cool. All right. I'm Anthony and I'm the CTO of Bianc, which is a sort of software provider for travel, travel industry. And I'm also a Svelte maintainer and sort of co-organizer of the Svelte Society. That's about it, really. All right. Nice. And I'm Kevin. I run Svelte School, a small site that tries to teach people interesting things about Svelte. And I also work at a company called BuddyBase, where we build a low-code tool for using Svelte. So that's interesting. Nice. All right. I guess that's it. Let's get started. Cool. So we want to talk about MD specs, new version? Do we have a separate thing before that? What's up with Sapper? Oh, yeah. Sorry. Is it alive? What's going on? Yeah. Anthony do you have any news for us? I mean I mean I guess the news is SAPPA was never really not it was never gone therefore it can never come back but you know it it just been a bit more activity on SAPPA I guess you know there no particular reason there no rhyme nor reason really it just uh it needed a bit of love um a few bigger uh prs have been merged one which had been kind of outstanding quite a long time um there's there's a company that seemed to have quite a large product which has got 70 000 pages I think or something um and they were taking it over an hour to build uh to build their site you know to export a static site so one of their PRs was to sort of paralyze and make more efficient the export process um and I mean obviously like it's very hard to get this PR through because granted they did all the work but we have nothing like that to test it against so we can't really say for us for our own you know our own selves whether it does or doesn't make a difference um i ran it on one of my sites and it seemed a little bit quicker um i looked with the pr i reviewed it and it there's nothing sort of that's not in occupancy in there looks looks reasonable um i know that conduitry likes to understand every single component of every pr which is kind of his his his value um but i think that uh the issue being that you know without understanding every single element of it the the user base of stealth and sap is quite large so it's a it's a big every every every line every bit of code is a big a big risk really so um so yeah it takes a little longer to get these things through but it it got through and it's and it's good and people seem to love it and hopefully we'll get a new a few new big ones like that through as well um and yeah so we need to just have a discussion about how we how we get some bigger bigger chunky bits of work through but uh but yeah a lot of pr's closed in the last couple of weeks or so and uh it's very exciting gets people quite ramped up about it so it's good nice nice yeah i like it too i had to i had to fork sapper uh to incorporate it into ssg just because it solved a lot of the race conditions for static site building um only to find that there's there's one there's there's another race condition which i cannot track down anyway but it's good to see progress because I mean I hope I don't know if they actually got back on that PR but they clearly used it in production at a fairly big scale so yeah I think they're using a fork so hopefully they could switch to the real thing now yeah well that it for Zapper MD specs Yeah What is MD specs I mean, so I've been more involved, I guess, on this one, just because I chatted a lot with Penguin. He has a real name. I don't know what it is. I'm pretty sure. It's still Penguin. and basically it's Markdown as Svelte components or Svelte in Markdown. And I think I prefer to think of it as Markdown as Svelte. So Markdown is, everyone knows Markdown, it's a superset of HTML and Svelte is a superset of HTML. So what MDSpecs actually does is that it lets you write Markdown with HTML with Svelte in it. And that converts to a single Svelte component. This was a major rewrite because it was working in the past, but we wanted some convenience features. So for example, if you wanted to bring in some layout templates, like, you know, not only to lay out the overall MB specs component, but then also to customize individual like H1 elements, a links and all that you couldn't really do that like it was just just directly converted like if you wrote a link in markdown it will convert to a link and like a tag with no classes no no any no customizations in in in in html so you know this that this actually lets you sort of customize all of that so it's really useful i'm actually using it for my my book site which i'm still working on because i haven't launched uh because i have i had to delay it because of um current affairs but um i think i think it's still i think it's a it's a major major upgrade actually i honestly i don't know why it's not uh version one because it was fairly uh comprehensive he worked on a very nice looking doc site uh with a very cute penguin so i thought it was version one version one worthy but um you know it's up to him yeah i'm using it sorry sorry karen no go ahead I was just gonna say you reminded me when you said why is it version one there's definitely an aversion to major version numbers which is kind of throughout all of software I think but it also seems to affect sort of SAP and things like that as well but I go into a bit more detail later but okay yeah so I use MD specs for Svelte School using like a number of different layouts actually and I've been having a lot of fun with it works very well especially so you know you can have like the so in MD specs you can have front matter right and it fits quite nicely actually with Routify because you can have metadata embedded in the pages in Routify as well. So you can pretty much have both of them synced up to the front matter. So Routify lets you pretty much get metadata from other pages in a way using certain helpers. It works out really well. Yeah. Honestly, so I use MDX from the React ecosystem for like a couple years and I like MD specs a lot better just because it has the niceties of Svelte which is like I can add in styles and it's pretty straightforward to make it work I don't think the dev tools support MD specs yet so you don't have like the internal sense and all that but I guess that's for future work yeah alright anything more on on mdfx um no i'd not not on mdfx directly i mean it's it's it's a great product i'd love to use it more and i don't use it at all unfortunately i haven't had time to investigate it but yeah it's something i think it's just a incredible tool and i think um it's i think i'm not 100 sure it might be used in the new um stench you know the uh the storybook oh Oh, yeah. Potentially using that, but I'm not 100% sure. No, they are. That's a perfect scenario. Yeah, we're using Sveng for a package at BuddyBase to do global styles for different products. Works really well. Very nice project as well. A bit on the early adopter side, though. Of course. Yeah. I'm looking at this Sveng read me. It says, this is very much a work in progress. Actually, it's still a little more than a proof of concept for now. Yeah. Yeah, so it's pretty much storybook for a built-in-svelte. Yeah. Without the cruft. Honestly, like, storybook should be storybook.

 Storybooks for Svelte because they try to be framework agnostic. But they've just got so bloated and so slow. Yeah, that's the problem with it, yeah. I much, much prefer just to work on our own. Yeah. Yeah. All right. Well, standalone REPL. Yeah. So I slipped this one in here because I thought it's really, really important. So for a long time, people have asked how you get the Svelte REPL in your own site. And, you know, it's always been a standalone project. It's always been available. but it's it's really hard to implement to sort of integrate in its current state and it wasn't documented um and so it's generally a matter of well sort of figure it out for yourself and it's quite difficult to figure out how to how to host it because it's quite a complex product um and it's a shame because it's really useful to stick in your blogs and stuff to have this live uh felt environment right in your blog where you can demonstrate concepts and things uh so the other I think last week somebody has opened a PR to, it shows a fully set up and working standalone REPL. And it's actually as part of the REPL project itself. So anyone who goes to that project can find that. So it needs a few little bits of cleanup to make it properly isolated from the REPL itself, but it's good to go. It's available. If you want to put the REPL in your blog now, you can probably figure out how from that PR and hopefully this week we'll get it merged and then there'll be a proper documented way of getting that running because you know certain people let's let's say penguin have put it in their presentations which has been super impressive i thought i'll i'll do the same thing and then i gave up after like an hour of trying because it is quite a difficult thing to do i added it to svelte school and uh i pretty much just i i looked at his bristock slides where he has the repl and i pretty much copied it over yeah that's amazing that that we all copy each other's work it's it's the what's it the purest sort of flattery or something isn't it imitation yeah imitation yeah um you know one of the things so you know this is gonna sound this is gonna come off like a little bit um unappreciative but uh i like monaco like i like the vs code editor experience um with the autocomplete with nice tabbing and all that I always been a little bit unhappy with this felt ripple like i wish it had like you know prettifying i wish it had a bunch of like things i don know if like we need to swap out the um i don't know what editor like you know library it uses i think it uses it uses uh oh is it repl it or something it uses one of these no maybe it's not repl it i isn't it i recognize it's like a hosted ripple yeah i can't remember it but yeah i mean maybe maybe it's the case i don't know how how up they are on updates and how well maintained the project is that that runs it right uh but yeah we could i mean look we could build language tools into it now right yeah so yeah who knows but i mean you know like you said you you may sound unappreciative i can understand the frustration for somebody who who relies on autocomplete i i don't personally so I don't really see that need but um I do know that the REPL is probably one of the main reasons I use Svelte because I I literally build entire parts of my site in the REPL just because it's so quick and there isn't really that that much HMR right now or anything like HMR I build big components my site in the REPL and I stick them back and it actually has another side benefit in that if I build it in the REPL I usually build it in a very isolated way and I'm more likely to then publish that as a completely separate open source library before I put in my project and then dog food that, that project myself. So actually, you know, there's a, there's a lot of benefits in the REPL as well. But yeah, totally appreciate your point on, on how, you know, it could be better, right? Well, when it, when it gets, when it gets split out, I'll be, you know, maybe easier. Cause I, I'm actually fairly familiar with Monaco for, just cause a random project. So I mean, I might be able to contribute that maybe have a different version. we'll see how we'll see how things go but um yeah all right next item uh front end masters oh i think we were all here for that yeah yeah did you guys watch it yeah yeah i watched most of it yeah yeah i mean i i like i wasn't paying full attention i was i was actually working while the thing was going but uh it was still so great to um watch the whole thing uh i was like a I mean he started at nine he ended at like 6 30 7 o'clock so I guess it was how many hours like nine hours yeah I mean it was a long time so it a monstrous effort but before before we we start discussing it we can probably say what it is to people So Rich Harris did a front master course on Svelte pretty much I guess that's the only intro we need to do. I think, yeah, I think it's pretty worth explaining because, you know, this isn't just a regular presentation. It's not a webinar. It's not a screencast or anything. This was actually a live classroom of people, right? And the people were obviously remote because of the COVID thing, but there was a live classroom people on zoom, I think, that he was teaching one, one-on-one almost. But whilst broadcasting and pre-recording the whole thing for, for a course that we published on the web. But what this meant was it was a full, a full day course. And I think that you could see how tired he was getting by even, even the second segment I was, I was kind of feeling for him because he was looking really tired. Poor guy. You know, I struggle to do a 30 minute presentation on something that I've kind of know in and out and recited he's doing this is teaching at the same time as talking about something he's built. He went through the whole tutorial. Then he had three projects to build on top of that. Funny story is actually he asked for recommendations, I think two days before the course, what to use for the database, what to use for hosting really critical stuff. Right. And I recommended the three things that I use because I know them kind of in and out. and he ended up using all of them uh which which is great but it kind of made me almost like okay this is all my fault now something goes wrong and an hour before he was due to start the course he's like okay the cells now give me 502 it's not deploying help and so uh so i had to kind of like do a bit of investigation with him looking through logs and stuff we figured out the issue in the end it was it was just a config wasn't being picked up but but i was like that was that was like absolute panic mode there like you know two days before he was building this this this app so it's crazy absolutely crazy um but yeah but yeah so so it's it's quite a feat everything about it seems to be quite a feat and i think that doing a nine hour stretch of of um you know non-stop presentation is is something that's just i think beyond my comprehension it's hard yeah i don't i don't think a lot of people can actually manage that well. No. Like I usually tired after just doing like a meetup talk Yeah I done a four done a four workshop before um and that that quite a lot to to get through um but i don know anyway it it his framework he can talk all day about it but very true um but yeah i mean you know i think it was also big like sort of coming of age events for svelt um just because uh you know front end masters is fairly picky about the kind of technologies that chooses to feature and um And then I'm sure it's also like the starting point for a lot of people. So I think there were a couple hundred in that workshop. And then we see more people online who are unregistered and just watching. So that was, I don't know, I think that's a good event. And from now on, we'll have something official from Rich. I don't think we ever had that before. So that's in the bag. Yeah, that's very cool. This podcast needs to have like a referral link for Front End Masters, doesn't it? maybe they want to sponsor speaking of sponsors I'm going to do a little segment here so we're looking for companies to sponsor this podcast so we can get the production value up a bit so if you're interested you can contact me I'm in the Svelte Society Discord all right that that's sweet that's my show um yeah i mean that was that that would uh very much be appreciated i think uh we you know as the essential sort of community thing for like we're all we're doing this as you know out of our free time i i think um the community kind of deserves um you know higher production value especially like you know us like figuring out audio issues is just like it just makes me feel uncomfortable it's like you know i want to contribute like technical value but then also we have to figure out all these like um production quality stuff as well and we have changed we have changed the uh video casting software like three or four times now yeah all right meetups oh um meetups uh so there's a french event um so i think uh well i think i think it's set in july i don't I don't think there's a date yet, but Karine Sabatier and Anthony Lagoa. So the way to get involved in this is to get in on the Svelte Society French channel.

 and they are looking for speakers, and I think they're looking for a date as well, but they're pretty sure that they want to hold it in July. I think they want to make it not just a meetup, but something slightly bigger with a schedule and conference E, kind of like it's French Spell Society Day, but I don't really know any specifics, but if you want to get involved in the French event, and kick things off. And I think the Discord is probably the place to go. Does anyone know any other details they want to add in? I haven't heard anything other than when we first talked about it, like on the Discord, pretty much. I don't know much about these talks in other countries. Like, is the French meetup expecting only French talks, or do they have English talks as well? i don't know okay i mean i think i think it would be most useful if it was just purely one language um just so that we could get uh more content like um there was a there was this felt brazil talk uh meetup recently and it was all it was all portuguese right and um i thought you know that's that's gonna be good for them um we need to actually we need to get in touch with russia i'm sure they're they're still having events we just don't know about it yeah there was there was that guy who was pretty active earlier on. I haven't heard from him much recently. But I would assume that their events were huge in Russia. Yeah, I should reach out. Let's follow up on that. Amsterdam meetup. I was going to talk. I had to cancel, unfortunately. But you did a talk, right, Sean? I did. It was on... Well, first of all, I think it was Shershen. I don't know his, his, his, I think his real name is like Mikhail. And he's, he's actually a fairly sort of organized organizer, which is better than me. So he like had did like tech checks with everyone and like, you know, had, had slides and like, you know, I just had, had the format down. Like he was a very experienced organizer. And so I think he, he normally organizes for Amsterdam and he wanted to take it online. So there was me and one other guy in the end So the other guy I forget his name but he talks about his experience converting his company app app to svelte um and that on that on the self society youtube um and uh for me i talked about the um just like showing people how to use svelte pre-processors how to write one from scratch and that's because um that's the most recent thing i worked on it in the mvp recipes repo which is still a thing oh by the way i need to talk to you kev about like let's make that a site uh that's yes yes yeah we have a fair amount of content now you know we started the mvp recipes people a couple months ago um just to like just get content but i think now we now we have some uh it's time to you know publish them and and make them sure more uh widely widely known um but yeah that's that was that was the meetup um i think you know it's a good good thing to keep going um and you know to have different organizers is organize independent events. I think that's something that we want to do in Swell Society, which is we're not a central organizer of meetups. We help people organize their own meetups so that nobody has too much of a burden either way. So I think it's good to have these independent events coming up. Yeah, I like them as well. Yeah, I think that's a nice service as well, actually. Actually, I've just moved a little, one of our agenda items up a bit here because your your talk about uh shurston i can't pronounce his name shurston uh he actually uh messaged me earlier in the week about the os awards so it's uh javascript awards for um i can't remember how they phrase it exactly but basically um uh game changing things uh in the in the last year and uh spelt has been nominated as one of those one of the top five uh in terms of like frameworks and languages um so if you go to the os awards site and go forward slash javascript we'll send the link out in the podcast but um you can actually vote i believe on on svelte as as it if you go to the home page you have to scroll on the carousel to the right one because svelte's the fifth item which is a bit annoying but but it's up there it's on there so you can go ahead and vote for that um if you think it's good which i assume you do listen to this podcast wait I don't see it it's only four projects it's yeah it's carousel it's a really annoying carousel with a little what little no I I just don't see it at all hang on let me let me let me just get the exact instructions here so if you go to 2020 nominees you got Alpine Tailwind 11TD Oh And you click right one at the top That's so annoying, huh? Okay, so it's not going to make it. Yeah. I mean, talk about a bias here, right? I've got a very wide screen and I can't see felt on it. It's not, there's a max width, right? So you have to click the right button. This is such a bad design. Yeah. I think, I think, I don't know whether this is the actual voting part or this is just the nominees or what, but, but yeah, they should really fix that. They should really fix that. But I think, I think what you can do is you can just stick the GitHub URL in that, in that box at the top of maybe that adds a vote or something. I don't know. No, no. Okay. I'll, I'll figure this out. Hang on. Cause I'm not, I'm not happy with that. That's not, that's not the way to do this. So I'm going to go on the official Svelte Twitter. Oh yeah. pretty sure that this felt Twitter account tweeted about it. Breakthrough of the year. No, there are no instructions. No instructions. I'm not putting the OS awards site on an awards site. Not at this rate. Yeah, okay. I'm really not sure how to use this. Maybe they just have judges. It's not a popular vote. yeah it could it could also be like the votes haven't started yet yeah i'm thinking that it says june 2020 though and it says ceremony location is in a church so who knows i guess we'll see yeah i guess so i'm gonna check the i'm gonna check the the url in there uh just to see what happens um but i don't yeah i i don't see anything happening so if anyone knows how to use this time just like write in at a comment or something this is a usability fail this is i mean it looks it looks great it just doesn't work no yeah yeah all right yeah i don't know i have no words should we uh move on sure quickly Okay, so Svelte actions. RFC actions. Yeah, the RFC for Svelte actions. Oh, yeah. Yeah so this is an RFC I wrote for getting some default actions into Svelte much like transitions There not really much to it It pretty much just adding these actions to Svelte like the package itself, I guess, figuring out which ones should go in. I read something about, so Penguin was, he commented and said, there's actually something called SvelteJS gestures, which isn't really something that's, I don't know, activated yet, if that makes sense, or if it's even going to be used. So I think figuring out like the right actions to put in here is quite valuable, but it's also quite hard to know what actions people actually use because it differs quite widely between what kind of project you're building. Like I've mostly used actions for input enhancement. So like selecting text, validation, stuff like that. Yeah, I've done something quite similar. I like the idea of built-in actions. The reason being, I guess it's a more, it's kind of a bit of prior art people can look at and understand how actions really work, but also a lot of the Svelte code base is quite complicated because it's a compiler, whereas the actions wouldn't be, you know, anything to do with that. They'd be almost like little individual snippets of JavaScript. So that would be beneficial and that people could actually probably, they're a bit more accessible to people, I think. Yeah. The current, the current way of teaching actions on the, on the tutorial is I think starting out with that as it is now, it's, It's like a drag example, right? And that's super complicated for what an action actually is, right? I think actually the second example after that, which shows some other concept, is like a really small action. That should probably be before the drag one, but I don't know. So like some of the useful ones is probably like long press. so you can listen to easily to long presses or maybe click outside. So I'm looking at your comment here, Sean. And I personally like the lazy load one.

 So lazy loading images, for example. That's a good one. That's a really valuable one as well, actually. It's like, it's one of those things that you kind of almost always want it, right? And it's a pain to edit yourself often. Well, take some time. It's not hard, but right. And I think a guy called Christian also posted like a bunch of actions that he uh that he uses in in his project um mostly it seemed like they were were to do with like key presses and enabling things like hitting escape would close a modal or or uh an input field or something like that so those are some things we can i think a lot well a lot of the well all the validation on bionc is actually using actions and I would publish all of that because I mean I'm pretty happy with the way it works right now but there are certain things that mean that I couldn't necessarily say they'd make official actions such as it's still quite difficult to if you've got a list that you can add items to it's quite difficult to use my actions to validate issues added to that list I've got a kind of manual worker right now but if I could solve that problem I would definitely contribute my entire validation library in fact because it's it's pretty smooth where it works is pretty smooth yeah one one problem with this is keeping them general enough but also specific enough at the same time kind of if that makes sense i don't know yeah i mean i i agree so you know i i also agree that it's going to be useful to have official actions uh it's just a question of um what do we include it's it's kind of like a weird thing where um you know this is a little bit more general than transitions so whereas for transitions like okay fly slide whatever like that that that's that's fairly easy these are very common things that we the people want um whereas you know the the proposed the one that christian christian proposed for example like blur on escape like how many actions are we going to have you know that like we probably want like an on escape action and then and then people can attach like a blur uh functionality but then if we make that so general then why don just people write it themselves as as bindings to to to individual elements so these are the things that are unresolved for me So actually I think Svelte as one of these optional components and they can get compiled in or they don't have to be used. We theoretically have an infinite capacity to add in first-party stuff. And so obviously, we're not going to do that. We're not going to massively increase the API surface area. So actually the more important thing to decide before we decide what goes in is we decide how do things go in? Like what's the criteria? Because we might do one round right now, but then, you know, a couple of months down the road, someone else might come along with some new idea and we need a criteria to run it through. um so so i've been more interested in in uh governance and like in in establishing criteria that uh that you know makes us consistent um which i guess now we're in the the bike phase of because i don't know myself yeah i think i think yeah also it's you know keeping them simple has a value in that if we're creating actions that are part of you know an official sort of library we have to be uh cognizant that basically if we enhance or change one of those actions that becomes a breaking change um right so yeah governance is especially especially important around them but keeping them simple enough that it reduces that surface area for things to be drastically different in a newer version uh would be very useful um yeah i'm i'm very biased towards like things that it would take me quite a few lines of code and I'll probably still get wrong to do. So like, like the gesture stuff, the, the long press stuff, like, I think like anything cross platformy that basically everybody needs and the, the, the, you know, the platform does the web or the DOM APIs don't provide for you. I think that'd be great to, to use it as an action. um sure oh rich also rich also prototyped one with uh form submission so so we uh you know i got into this mode of like progressive enhancement because actions only run after the component mounts um so we can actually write html that works normally and then swap it out with with client-side js um once the js loads um so that's a that's a perf focused action as well i don't know if we want that right away but um i think that an interesting use case that is that is interesting actually It made me think because I got this library right that does asynchronous loading of JavaScript libraries external JavaScript libraries, with the view that it doesn't slow your page down. It only loads a library when you load that component. And also it only loads that library once if it detects a certain condition, like something beyond the window object. It won't reload that library. I think that could make a very good action, in fact. And I think it's something that people don't commonly use it because they don't understand the reason behind it. But I've used it for everything on my site now because it's just, you know, Lighthouse is going to penalize you if you're loading Stripe or if you're loading Intercom or something when the page loads, even though it's a default way to do it because it's factoring in intercoms. They've got quite a large bundle of JavaScript and it's all kind of like minified and stuff, but it's quite a huge bundle of JavaScript. and you get penalized in the lighthouse for loading that. So yeah, I think it would definitely be useful to have that as an action, like I've got it on my site. So that only when you're on a page that has the intercom widget to start library start to load. Cool. Sounds good. I think that's that for actions. Cool. So what's this about PancakeJS being on TV? Yeah. So, well, so Hillary Clinton, of all people, has tweeted a graph of how COVID cases are growing in the United States versus how they're sort of recovering everywhere else. Obviously not the world's best, you know, hurrah, look at this, look at these graphs thing. But still they are Rich Harris's Svelte graphs nonetheless. It's the sort of first instance of Svelte being on TV that I'm aware of. um and rich has retweeted that so we'll send a link to that tweet as well but um but yeah so there you go svelts on tv and also henry clinton herself is pushing svelte i mean if if you don't that that is that is the ultimate right that is the ultimate uh uh endorsement perfect yeah so so so pancake graphs by the way just for sort of backstory here pancake graphs are I think they're Rich's graph library using Svelte, so a native Svelte graph library. It's kind of early stage, but obviously they are in production they are used And I actually want to start using them soon because they look pretty good I used Chartist in the past with Svelte which worked really well but obviously having a native Svelte solution sounds even better because you can describe your graph, hopefully, in components, which is quite nice. Yeah. I think one of the main selling points is also that it works without JavaScript, right? So I think you'll get like all the axes and all the aspect ratios. will be good even when you don't have JavaScript. Interesting. And it's done, I think, purely with SVG and some cool trick with which I don't really understand because I don't write SVG by magic. So Rich actually introduced this in one of the Svelte NYC meetups. And I actually have a recording of that. So I've gone and put it in the show notes. It's on the Svelte Society YouTube. and what's funny is that um it was so the name pancake was preceded by um you know the the sort of original library that he based it on which is created by another um new york times employee who also created another uh graphing library called uh layer cake um wow oh basically they all they they don't like using each other's tools so they just make their own it was pretty funny because they both presented and then they're like okay these are like the same thing oh they both presented at the same yeah that's hilarious but obviously like people only care about uh the pancake one because it's a svelte meetup and riches that's richest thing so yeah but but you know if you're if you're interested in the difference i mean obviously these guys they care a lot about the tools that they use to do data viz and obviously they're the best in the world at it so it's worth checking out these these individual individual projects and seeing you know whether that's a fit for you but I you know I'll be honest I haven't had a need for it but I you know if there's something that suits that use case and I want to look as nice as New times graphics, I would definitely reach for that. Nice. Yeah. Honestly, like dashboards, like anyone building dashboards, they need some sort of database. And I built quite a large dashboard with, you know, it's got, it's not a significant following on GitHub, but it's got a fair few users. And I didn't, well, Pancake didn't exist at the time because I wrote it in Svelte 1.

 think and then move to start to but um yeah a perfect use case yeah it's definitely great it's something that's been on my mind for a while but yeah the whole architecture needs to change because it's we're all serverless now and all sorts of stuff i actually i actually rebuilt a prototype in serverless and it's it sort of works well but it's really expensive to run because every single graph update is a different serverless request oh wow yeah back to the drawing board on that one i think all right svelte in production oh yeah um i think this could be a regular segment uh we try to look out for svelte production case use cases um so and i'm trying to feature that on the on the on the twitter for svelte society just to show people that you know uh real life use cases so this is pretty big uh js party which is uh one of those big js podcasts um their most recent episode uh talked about uh you know using svelte in production um and it was on paste.dev um that's the url but then also uh their paste.dev uh you know spelled out on twitter and it's a project manual tool i'm on the site it looks it looks pretty good um and they talked a bit about how the decision process for like choosing a front-end framework and uh their experience working with it and uh i mean it just looks good like i i like seeing people use uh svelte in production so yeah i i uh i listened to this podcast as well and i think they they they're not um they're not js people yeah exactly they're they're go people right and so i think they have their back end and go and i'm not sure exactly how it works how they pass like state and stuff um they're probably smart enough to rest apis and what have you yeah right right yeah um i mean yeah so like you know i i think i think it's a cool side project um and i mean maybe maybe it's not a side project at all i i i don't actually know whether it's a side project or like a main deal i think it's a main main main thing okay um but yeah i mean i I actually like their chemistry and I thought they were pretty funny, actually. You know how there's two co-founders and they make fun of each other? I think it pretty fun to listen to So I definitely go listen to that podcast And then the other Svelte production case that I I think Rich Harris also featured this which is the New Kingdom Hearts website, which I've never played. I know it's a big deal, but I just, I never, I'm not a huge gamer. But the New Kingdom Hearts website uses Svelte. And we have proof because we inspected the website. Is this the Disney stroke Square Enix thing? yeah yeah yeah that's good yeah i was going to mention that that's quite a big one as well um yeah that's that's huge i mean it seems like a lot of their games actually use um use felt yeah that's pretty cool uh also probably worth mentioning here um i've just i was looking for that tweet just to mention actually uh that but i've noticed that um gun database gun db is actually now added official Svelte support, which is pretty cool. I've heard a lot of things about GUN. I don't think I've ever heard about it. No? What kind of... I mean, I'm not sure exactly how it works, but I believe it's a distributed database. GUN.ECO. So GUN.ECO. I think the guy who is the founder of the project is quite an activist. he's quite into his um you know world saving and stuff like that so that's uh probably why it's on eco domain yeah i didn't even know there was an eco yeah i didn't even know how many there is yeah yeah yeah well this looks yeah this looks impressive um very well and it uses svelte huh it doesn't well it it now can yeah oh and it uses tailwind oh yeah i'm just inspecting the site oh yeah that's like the site itself maybe but i think i think the actual database itself has now uh actual self-support i don't know how i think it's one of these front-end databases so it's it's kind of yeah tied in like firebase and stuff yeah perfect awesome cool okay um what else do we have so we have a like a small showcase uh I guess this could also be a segment, maybe. I don't know. Yeah. This is pretty much just taken from the Svelte Discord's showcase channel So there a new project called JungleJS which is supposed to be a kind of a Gatsby or Gridsome thing for Svelte I don know the progress of it but might be something to check out I guess you guys haven't heard about it? This is my first hearing about it. It'll be great because then I don't have to make my own but it looks it looks very new um so yes yes this is definitely early early stage yeah i mean it calls itself the jamstack static site framework for spell i mean if you're into jamstack then maybe this is something that you can jump on and contribute to because it is in that sort of it's in that stage where it's making its decisions about how to be built uh so i'm looking at the source code uh it is a 309 line index.js file that's that's the source code um i think it's it does it does some um sort of reading of different file types um and then you know gives you a graph kill layer so i think it's it's definitely into that so that whole gatsby graph kill uh element huh interesting yeah i don't know what else to think about it like i i you know my my original vision for static sites was a bit simpler than that basically like we need a default layer for like Svelte docs. I think that's, that'd be nice to get to markdown to site, you know? Yeah. Anyway, yeah, jungle.js, that's awesome. Nice. Yeah, yeah. And then the other one I thought was pretty cool was this Unicode lookup thing. So it's basically a static Unicode lookup web app that uses web workers. So, yeah. fancy yeah i type in rocket i type in rocket and it gives me the unicode code points and then a bunch of square boxes so it's pretty funny yeah i wonder what the what the square boxes are well yeah we don't have rendering for that in in the current browser right yeah i guess the fonts on your system whatever fonts using doesn't have those characters is that right um often often than the case when I think Mac users type things, emojis, and then no one else can see them. Yeah OK So that pretty much it I think all right anyone have should we do picks I don't have any I've been way too busy to look at anything at all yeah I did have one I forgot to write it down but if you have one Sean go ahead and I might remember one meanwhile I mean I don't have an item, but I have a lifestyle recommendation, which is get a monitor. I just got an external monitor and it sits above the laptop and I have an external keyboard. And I think it's just better for ergonomics. It makes you sit up straight. Like I put books under the monitor. You know, some of you, I think maybe you might have like a mounted arm thing, but I just put books under the monitor and then I immediately don't hunch over as much. and I think that's that's important for um ergonomics like we got to take care of our bodies right I agree yeah do you have what do you have arm things or what do you guys have I have two monitors sorry Kevin Kevin oh no I was just gonna say yeah I have a like one of those monitor arm things works great um totally recommend it um I guess it's yeah go ahead no no yeah so so i guess it's it makes you uh less mobile right um since you can't really carry around your your monitor and you you get really used to having several monitors very quickly at least i do i hate working on like my my laptop um without the monitors yeah i can't i can't do it i just can't do it at all um i as i said the setup is very similar to what sean says having the monitors uh i've got them on it on an arm i've got two monitors on an arm and having the top of the monitor in line with your eye line is is apparently how you should have it um and it does it it makes you step straight um i had a little tool called a loom i think it's called a loomy or something uh sadly they've gone bust now i think but it's a little tool that you stick you magnetize to your clothes and if you hunch over it buzzes at you. It means you're all, it's like it's got like a little gravity sensor in it so it helps you always sit up right and it just reminds you if you start to lean it won't buzz it will just kind of make little pip feelings for you and if you continue to hunch then it will buzz. So it's like a posture thing. It's basically a posture thing yeah.

 It's a shame because they've gone bust now, so the app's gone off the app store and stuff. You can't configure it anymore. Oh, no. It's a pretty cool tool. It's quite a nice tool. I think they got acquired in the company that acquired them to shut them down, so it's a shame. Wait, wait, wait. So what is it? Do you call it a sensor? Yeah, it's just like a little lithium battery in a little plastic case that has got a magnetized back, so you can put it on like a badge to your top. And then you say that's you in the upright position. now i want to buy an egg you can it's such a shame it's such a shame i don't know maybe i don't i don't know but um but yeah so i i have that i don't use it much uh anymore for many reasons but i don't use it much anymore but i've got two months on an arm i've always had an external keyboard always using that um the ergonomic one in fact my soft ergonomic one just because it's it's much more relaxing position on your wrists it comes with a really weird mouse but again you get used to this and this is a nice shape to hold it properly your hand is like that and eBay, troll eBay for Aeron chairs going cheap, I got this Aeron top, it's got the nice back support and everything, it's got the new back support, it was 250 quid or 300 quid or something which is not bad since if I bought this new when it came out it would be £1,600 with the add it got but it I mean I used to sit these at work all the time and it the most beautiful chair to sit on It doesn you don get too warm because it got a mesh it got nice arms it's got arms that move in and out. So when you stand up, they move out of the way. It's really good. I should get one. It's an expensive chair, even second hand off eBay, but the benefit to your back is just huge. You can adjust them endlessly. It's really worth having. sorry yeah absolutely i mean sit on one for a bit go and find one to sit on and you'll understand um and i think the other the other really important thing that i've got here which i don't use as much as i should is a standing desk um again this is an ebay purchase i got it super cheap they're about five liquid new this one cost me 150 um it's fully electronic so you just press a button it rises up you can do standing sitting whatever you want to do my wife just got on for herself in the next room and she's got a manual winder and it's exactly the same it's just a lot cheaper um but the manual winding the amount of times you're going to make the desk up and down it's worth having so yeah yeah and i can imagine like if if you have like the the manual wind you won't do it as do it as much right i honestly think it makes no difference i i genuinely the five seconds it takes you to hold a button down because it's quite a slow movement, might as well wind it. It literally makes no difference at all. Actually. I would, you know get get whatever you want but manual also I found out totally get a manual one after using a manual and electronic It no difference Yeah Yeah All right So I have a pick actually Oh see There you go Yeah. Yeah. So I just yesterday, I got my invite to this new email service by Basecamp called Hey. And I'm liking it. I'm liking it a lot. It's really nice. Do you like it enough to pay $99 a year? yes yes i think so wow but but i i think i i kind of i want my own domain i don't want the hey domain because i want to own my my actual like email because yeah exactly because i i want to be able to move email providers if some something happens right yeah um i currently pay for for fast mail um i'm pretty satisfied satisfied there but what's the what's the values of fast mail um what's the you know what what sets them apart from gmail um so for me it's it's uh just like i think you have to pay in gmail to get your own custom domain uh at least that was the key at some point Yeah, you need to Google G Suite. Right, yeah. So I think it's pretty much the same cost if you go for a custom domain. I just tried FastMate I honestly don think it I just tried it and I stuck with it pretty much they have like aliases so you can create unlimited aliases but I you can solve that in gmail as well in other ways so yeah yeah well um I'm sure I'm sure they are working on custom domains um yeah I have I think I was probably in the same um same batch as you um I also have an invite and um i actually auctioned off my i'm auctioning off my uh my hey invite so every every person who joins gets two extra invites um so so instead of giving it out i was like the you know the top two who donate to a good cause so i have a like a list of uh diversity in tech um non-profits that that i that i spelled out and i was like you know top two who donate to these things we'll get we'll get the invite um so far yeah so far i have uh about 500 uh that people have donated and the top date is 200 that's great for a hey invite that's that's pretty cool that's that's a nice idea yeah i mean might as well like you know these are these are like frivolous things but you might as well yeah uh get it's a good cause i will totally today any invites i get to that course because that sounds really good absolutely yeah all right um all right that's it well uh that's another episode yes yeah all right