 Hi there. So in this video we're going to pick up from where we left off in the last one. So in the last one we just set up a very basic Supabase plus SvelteKit project. And now in this one we're going to actually add some data to our tables. So we have a button that signs the person up. In the last video we did that. And now we're going to have this little add room button that adds a room from here. So come to Supabase, this normal one, or the homepage, and come down here, create a record. we're just going to use this right here. And we're going to paste that into this little boilerplate I set up. So basically we're just binding value to room, and then when they click the room, it's going to run this right here. So you'll see, so we have await Supabase.fromRooms, so this is the name of the table, and then insert this right here. Okay, so instead of the name SuperbaseFanClub, we're just going to put room like that. Public, true. How about size, big. Okay, so these are the two. So it's a room with a name and a size. Okay, so we add room. Let come back over here to our dashboard and create this table So go to table in the top left new table it gonna be called rooms It got to have the same name as whatever we calling it there And then it have this ID in four, that's fine. So save, and this will just create the table. And from there, we can add the columns. So we have a name column and a size column. So name is going to be type text. And I think these our Postgres types. Allow empty, sure. Save. And then we'll have another column called size type. Let's just make this also text. Okay, save. So if we want, we can add something here ourselves. So I could just add a new row myself, like Svelte fan club size, big for sure. and then it would add it there but let's try adding it from just with this function here so come back here and we're going to say supabase fan club add room and i should have console.logged it or something but that's okay let's just look at the network tab so it posted here and you see it got a 201 you can look into that but let's just come back here and refresh. And there we go So now we have Super Bass Fan Club also that we just added Okay so that how you can do it One thing to note is that all of this data is public data so anyone that signs up to your app can insert, delete, update any of the data here. So we're just doing the default configuration right now, but in another video we'll look at how you can restrict access to different rows based on who's logged in. Let's also look at how we can read from it, read a record. So it's kind of similar to SQL, but let's take a look right here. Let's copy this in. Public rooms. So from rooms, select name, comma. Let's just do name, comma, size. so async function get rooms and then move this down okay where public is true we don't care about that we remove public so name size public rooms so let's just return this so it doesn't need to be an async function it's a little messy but let's use this await block So await get rooms And then response let just show this as a JSON object So response null two. Okay, so these will be all our rooms. What's wrong here? Okay, just loading. Okay, let's see how that looks. Okay, cool. So we'll see here with this very simple function, get rooms, we can get all the rooms. So data right here. So it gives us also the status, text, body, data. Okay, I don't know why there's both of those. But yeah, anyway, we have access now to all of our rooms with data. So it won't, I can add another one like view fan club. I can add that room, but it won't update right away. so I got a refresh and now it's oops view fan club now it's there but in the next video we will look at real-time subscriptions and we'll look at that but yeah we could probably also rather than select name size if you want everything you can just do star that should work also we come back here oh where is it here it is yeah that works also okay cool so that's all for this video and