 Hey everyone, welcome back and let's talk about something really powerful that you have at your disposal and that is the bindable rune in Svelte 5. This is super powerful, I think you're going to love it, and let's go ahead and hop into our example. So I'm in the parent component now and I'm importing a child component, I'm creating a little bit of state here, and we are binding the value of this child component to the local variable message. So it's a very straightforward example here. Now, this is where it's really going to come together in our child component. And so we are using the bindable rune with the value prop. And what we're doing here is we're binding the value of this input element to the value prop. That's all we have to do. And if we go ahead and look at these felt docs here, you're going to see that with the bindable rune, the data can flow up from the child to the parent. So this is obviously really useful, and it's going to really cut down on a lot of code that we have to write. And so as you see on line eight, we are displaying the message value. And so if I go ahead and I change this right inside the child component, it is then displayed and pushed up to the parent component So you see that it working which is awesome Now if we did not have the bindable rune readily available we have to do something like this We have to create a set message function. Then we'd have to immediately pass in set message just like that. Okay, perfect. We're going to get rid of bindable and I'm just going to add set message in the props here. and then right here and you can already see that this is way different we're going to use an on input handler and as you see i did not add those colons here that would normally exist right here in svelte 4 this is svelte 5 and they removed those so just a quick heads up and we're going to go ahead and use that function that we just passed in and you know what i should have done i should have just grabbed that event right there and then we're going to go e dot target dot value just like that so this is kind of an alternative way of doing it it is going to you know you're essentially creating a function right in the same scope that the state was created in and pass that function into the child's component um so let me go ahead and just type in here and as you see this also works but you know the bindable rune is definitely the way to go it's going to make your life way easier. And it's just a lot of, you know, less code to maintain. So I hope you like this. If you did go ahead and give us a thumbs up and I will see you in the next one.