 Hey everyone, welcome back and let's quickly talk about using API routes in SvelteKit. So this is really easy to do and I am inside my routes folder, an API folder, a user folder, and then that's where our plus server.ts file is going to live. Now I was trying to keep this purely in JavaScript, but I think just getting some proper autocomplete in this example would be a good idea. So this is how we're going to create an API route. We're going to export a function and then we're just going to name that method in all caps. That's it. It's really, really simple. And so if I wanted to create a post function, super easy to do. Post all caps, right? And here we are. That's it. And so we can kind of put all of our methods here and then we're going to be all set. Now, something to really keep in mind, and this is really a requirement when creating an API route is we have a ton of options here So you see that we already using URL And if you want to invoke autocomplete inside VS Code you can go ahead and use command space. If you're on Windows, control space. Or if you're already using command space on Mac, you can use option escape. And so that's what I'm going to use just because I switch in between Spanish and English keyboards and I use command space to toggle those. So I'm using option escape and you're going to see all of these options available to us. So we can kind of pull out cookies. We could use request params. I mean, we have just an absolute ton of options here. Locals, that's a real common one that I use. And so if you need to use any of these, you need to be grabbing some information, you're going to do this right here. That's where that's going to live. Okay and so this is really simple And remember SvelteKit is built on web standards so we need to be returning a response object That really important to keep in mind Now, we have kind of like a convenience function that we have available here, and so we can just kind of pull out JSON, which is really nice, and we can kind of refactor this to use JSON. So I'm going to return JSON, and then we can just say random. That's the value we're trying to return. So that's kind of a way to refactor this. I really like the JSON function, and just kind of keep that in mind. Now, with error, you don't have to throw error. That's something really kind of important to consider. But if we're going to be using redirect, which is a very valid use case inside of an API route. What we can do is we can throw redirect and this is going to take two arguments The first one is going to be a number It just going to be a status code And so I going to say 302 which is a temporary redirect I really really want to be cautious of that 301, that permanent redirect, because then that can complicate things later on, which is quite a bit out of the scope of this video here. But once we have that, We're just going to pass in a string, and then we're going to type out the path. So maybe we want to just redirect to slash blog, something like this. Okay, and so you have all of these at your disposal inside at SvelteKit.js slash kit. If you're using TypeScript, you're going to get some really good autocomplete there, so you may not have to worry about where exactly it's imported from, but just keep that in mind. And so this is how we're going to create API routes in SvelteKit. It's really easy. I hope you got something out of this video. If you did, go ahead and give us a thumbs up, and I will see you in the next one.