 Hey everyone, welcome back. And now that Svelte 5 is officially here, let's talk about how to work with state and more specifically, how to work with the state rune. Now, when I say rune, I mean any piece of Svelte syntax that involves or is prefixed with this dollar sign. That tells us that something magical is happening and some heavy lifting is taking place under the hood. Now, the first reason why I really like working with the state rune is that it signals to you or it's expressing that this value is supposed to change. And I really like that because, remember, we used to just declare state just like this, right? A simple let counter equals zero. But it's not really obvious if this is supposed to change, right? And so working with that state rune is going to tell us, hey, this is going to update or this is going to change this particular value. Now, take a look at this error sign we get. This is pretty cool because if we are changing that value it going to signal to us that hey counter is updated but it not declared with the state rune And so it not going to re And that honestly really nice That a great developer experience. So let's go ahead and change this back. And as you can see, we can increment this. And we're incrementing with an on-click handler. And then we just have this function expression right here that just increments that value. Now, something that's really important we should talk about is this was the old syntax, right? We would use a colon on that onclick handler, and we're not going to do this anymore. So we do get a message in our editor saying, you know, hey, let's not mix the old syntax and the new syntax. And if we just use these, let's go ahead and just kind of add all of these colons here. Oops, let me go ahead and change that. There we go, you're going to see that, you know, Hey, this is deprecated, but whenever we kind of like mix them. So we just have one right here. We're going to also get an overlay saying, Hey, let's not mix the old and new syntax So let me go ahead and get rid of that colon And once again we all set Now what really cool about the stateroom is that it uses signals Now this is abstracted away You don't have to worry about what signals are. And, you know, the guy that's nicknamed the CEO of signals, Ryan Carniato, which is also the creator of SolidJS and honestly, like a prolific developer. You know, he likes to explain signals as a directed data graph. Okay. And what's really nice about that without getting, you know, too much into the weeds here is that it comes with guarantees, right? His words, not mine. And it guarantees that it's only going to trigger a re-render once, which is, you know, essentially what we want. Now, because this state rune uses signals, we get fine-grained reactivity, and that's really going to come in handy when working with arrays and also working with objects. So take a look. Take a look at our function expression right here This is what involving the array and we get to just use push which is awesome Because remember we used to have to create a new array and then reassign that new array to the old variable. And that was just a little bit messy and not very concise or expressive. And this is just a way better developer experience. So as you see, I can go ahead and add that next item there just with one click using that on click handler and then just pushing to that array. Now, another thing which is really cool with this fine grain reactivity is within objects, we can just reassign a property of that object and we're going to get some nice reactivity. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to update name. We're going to change Alice to Bob. So I'm going to go ahead and click this and boom it's already set it's already re-rendered and we're getting that really nice reactive experience so this is a little bit of an introduction on state in the state room in svelte 5 if you found this helpful which i hope you did go ahead and give us a thumbs up and i will see you in the next one