 Hello, everyone. Welcome to another episode of Svelte Radio. I'm your host, Kevin. I run a site called Svelte School, and I'm joined by my two co-hosts, Anthony and Sean. I'm Anthony and the CTF Bianc. I'm a Svelte maintainer. And actually, I can say this now, I'm currently working on SvelteKit, which is quite fun. Ooh, that's hot. We should talk about that. I'm Sean. I work at AWS and Temporal, and I don't really currently work on anything, but I do use Elder.js a lot. So that's fun. All right. So last weekend, we... It was last weekend, right? October 18th. I had the date memorized because I was promoting it so much. I have no idea. Time is not my... Round circle. Yeah, no, no mine. All right. So what did you guys think? Was it good? Yeah, I think we went very well. I wasn't sure if I was going to stick through the whole event because it was going to be a long one. And it was very late at night for me and on the weekend. But then I just found the conversation really entertaining. The talks were cool. And I stuck around for the entire thing. Well, that's awesome. Seven hours. Yeah. I mean, I also did stick around for the whole thing. You cycled like a billion miles. Well, actually, it's quite a short cycle because I was trying to moderate the chat from my phone whilst sitting on the bike, watching the conference. But also, I had like the cycle train wrap up and everything else. So it was, yeah, it was interesting. trying to do too many things at once i suppose but uh i think i did like 20 25k or something in and out which isn't that impressive but it's you know it's worth doing it was a good feeling as well like it was what i found was it's surprisingly easy to concentrate when you're on a cycle trainer watching a conference and i think that i'd like to just go to more events like that but while cycling because it just it works really well i like working out as well while like watching stuff but it's usually very it's quite hard right nice i've tried running and watching the simpsons and i can't do that you know it's just it's just impossible but this was much easier for some reason cycling is probably a bit easier i kind of in my mind at least it feels like it would be easier yeah well you're sitting down for one i think but also i guess you can vary the the cadence quite easily like you can just change gear and make it easier harder if you want to focus on a specific bit it not like you having to maintain a constant all the time but yeah no it worked really well worked really well so I probably try and do that in future actually and then yeah we watch the rest on the on the tv downstairs and it was you know it was it was me me watching and enjoying it and my wife having it enforced upon her but uh you know hey so which talks did you uh did you guys like the most i think my favorite was like the web mode one for sure oh yeah like in a in a creative way i really like that one the flying head and Yeah, I think that's an easy one. I mean, he actually, I think, expanded. You know, I personally do a lot of pre-recorded conference speaking. And he's a first-time speaker. And he expanded my idea of what a pre-recorded talk can do. So, like, he, you know, built a thing and then played music. And then the rest of the talk had that backing music. And that was genius. Yeah. Yeah, it's nice to have a pace setter, like, music-wise. I don't know if you've ever heard of the comedian Mitch Hedberg he's dead now sadly but he always had this like weird beat going on throughout his entire set and it just it elevates it adds like a massive dimension to it and I'm not even sure why like there's just I can't wonder what the beat is it's like I think it's somebody playing an instrument called Chuck and then when his jokes change or when his jokes start to fail or whatever which they do a lot because he's kind of an abstract comedian he'll just say can you just sort of ramp it up a bit chuck and chuck will sort of increase the tempo a bit and change up the the way it sounds it's such a good idea it's really good it's really good way to do it actually so if you've got sort of i can't what instrument is now it's ridiculous but if you've got somebody who can play an instrument get them along to your talk and they can play the background pro tip yeah just to mention some of the others i i realized that there's a lot of curiosity around felt transitions and animations i think we have three talks uh so one nicolo davis on crossfade and then we had mark falkman on animations and then we had lihao on transitions and i thought that was i you know i i always wondered that and it's kind of like wish fulfillment for me to actually have talks like these that really explored how they work and what we can do with them and i think it's yeah it's another another reason why i mentioned those talks actually is because it's really really difficult to talk on something that's that's kind of intricate and complex it's very easy to do talks not very easy but it's easy to do talks on sort of more high level subjects building that building this building that but when you trying to go into complex detail about an internal of something and do a talk on it and present and maybe even live code in some circumstances which is just next level but it's really really difficult and i think prepping talks i found that i tend to shy away a bit from more complex subjects because i don't feel that my understanding's as good as it should be to get that talk right so so yeah i I think extra props those people who did that kind of talk as well. I think it's also worth mentioning Luke's talk on for me because I think especially since I kind of had prior knowledge of what SvelteKit was doing, it was really interesting to see how you could deploy an application to Cloudflare workers because that's something that's really pushing the boundaries of serverless and where we're going kind of thing. I'll be that guy. I confess that I think that talk was above my pay grade. I didn't really like, you know, I have some familiarity with serverless functions, but I didn't feel like I got the pitch. So I need to I need to watch it again because I didn't I didn't really get like what the benefits were. Like, is it faster? If you're building an application and you're responsible for deploying the application, your kind of primary goals are to get the hosting really scalable, get it resilient, keep the cost down and make it make it as fast as possible. And I think that Cloudflare workers or any kind of CDN worker like that will fulfill all those criteria because you're running your application at the edge, like literally as close to the user as is possible, really, other than having a machine in their living room that's serving only them. But you're also, you know, you've got that resilience because there's so many Cloudflare nodes. It's full serverless because they are basically tiny little serverless workers. so it's it's really of interest to people i guess who are thinking about deploying an application and and sort of determining and deciding on what infrastructure they're going to use so i think it's i think it's valid it will go over the head for a lot of people because they may not be in that in that kind of space where they'd have to do that but i think that once you start looking at the array of service offerings there are out there right now there's so many it's really hard to pick and choose between them and you know it goes all the way from kind of the sort of prior art of Heroku where you're getting a little dedicated virtual machine to serve your application up all the way to Cloudflare workers, which is a very different concept doing fundamentally the same thing. So yeah, I think that's the case for a lot of people. But I think that at some point you may go aha I going to go and watch that talk now because I need to do this thing I a big fan Yeah I know you are To get it straight SvelteKit is kind of built with this model in mind that we want to be able to render from within a worker It seems like that's the case. Because I also see this happening in React Land, the new Metaframer that's coming out this week, Remix, from Michael Jackson and Ryan Florence. They're also adopting this model and it seems like a new trend that's coming out. and it also links in my head to glenn matter who he's the guy who came up with css modules and he he's been promoting this idea for a while of fads front-end application bundles kind of containers for your front end that you can ship to profit workers so he was on this idea like two years ago like no everyone just ignored him because this is so weird yeah but that's that's that's downside to being the first you know the first in the door kind of thing yeah so so just on those points yeah svelte kits is designed to be kind of serverless first because it does seem like the most logical way to deploy an application and it can be done pretty smoothly whilst giving you a good dev experience locally if done with that in mind a lot of serverless right now doesn't really factor that in and it's quite hard to develop locally because you're trying to run up this impossible architecture on your local machine the fab thing was mentioned to me recently and i was sort of got excited about it and told rich and stuff and rich had already been contacted by them a few a few months prior and yeah that the this the concept of adapters and fab has a lot of overlap but what we're sort of thinking is we might build a fab adapter so that you've got these first-class citizen deployment mechanisms for sort of the biggest and and for me the easiest deployment platforms and then for everything else you've kind of got fab because you you by writing one single adapter for fab you're opening a lot of doors i think fab's an excellent idea it's it's absolutely brilliant and i wish i'd found it myself a lot earlier in fact because i think it's just going to save especially when you haven't got the resource to build something in a platform agnostic way you've got this adapter that will allow you to basically build for anything at all which is which is great so yeah so fab's pretty exciting actually my take on it is that we have too many config files in the world and if we just you know all agreed on one config file then the world would be a better place but that's also how you get the 15th config file when they're already 14 around because everyone's trying to do that but i think because every serverless provider I guess has their own config file. So this would be a sort of platform agnostic one. Yeah, I mean, I think it's worth mentioning at this point, I've looked at all these providers, obviously part of building kit and stuff.

 but also I've looked at all these providers for a while to determine, you know, where I'm going to deploy my stuff to. And I think that my favorite so far has been the OpenJS architect that begin.com uses. It's just really clean. It makes a lot of sense. It's not any known format in terms of like, it's not like YAML where there's a million parsers, but they do have a library you can parse it with called architect, I think. And it just, I just find the format really clean and logical. And if there's any one standard for config files, which I really don't think will happen. I would love it to be architect because it's just great. I'll provide the counter argument, which is that if you're truly platform agnostic, that's great. You can take your code anywhere, but then you're also not taking advantage of the platform by definition, right? And anything that platform can build in, you can't take advantage of it because it's going to be unique to that particular platform. So for example, begin offers begin data and you can't use that anywhere else. So good luck. It's very true. however what i would say it's almost a store argument actually because the begin data interface is extremely simple right it's get and set and that's that's it and i think that let's not kid ourselves begin data is just is just um what's that amazon database called the uh key value one dynamo db it's just dynamo db so i think that any anybody who was to sort of decide to use architect format they could either you know not have not have a data element to it and just say we don't have a data element or they could implement a key value, you know, get set over anything at all. I think it's quite abstract enough that you could implement it yourself on, on anything you wanted to in fact. So, so yeah, I mean, I totally get your argument, Sean, but I think that abstraction makes things a little bit harder for the, for the implementer, but I think it's definitely possible. Shall we go back to the front end? Oh yeah. Yes. Yeah. Tell me more. Let's, let's, let's, let's talk about plenty. Did you guys try this, this before, for the talk i i have not i checked out the site and i mean it's it's a cool site generator i just haven't tried it yet yeah it's on it's on my to-do list but then so i have many many things it sounds like a great idea it's uh sort of less developer centric which is really nice so it's something i hope to do soon but it's not i haven't had a chance to look at it in any depth yet yeah i feel bad i'm gonna i'm gonna go try it now because like it's a it's a site builder They're betting their business on Svelte, just like BuddyBase is and we got to try all these things Otherwise how are they going to succeed succeed and how it going to grow without them you know so i did actually try it like a i think maybe a month or two ago just downloaded the like the starter their example and seemed like a nice nice thing but i didn't try anything like more complex than that but from from the presentation it looked like really nice very simple very easy to get going there are a lot of uh static site generators this uh this conference world two two i mean then there's this elder js i think yeah but yeah but this i guess that's why i'm saying it's not developer centric because it feels like plenty is designed a bit more for maybe it may be a business-minded person who doesn't have the the technical skills to maybe use elder because it's pretty complicated for non-developers and I think that's something that's really needed is and you know it's been done a million times over the years somewhat someone someone will get it right building websites it's not going to ever produce the kind of website that you might get built by a dev team but it certainly can build something that's fast and light and appealing and responsive and and flexible enough that you can build a at least an mvp or you know maybe even run your entire business on it depending how small you are so so yeah it'd be good to see something in that space so hopefully plenty is that yeah i think i think plenty is is like so elder js is uh a bit daunting to get started with and on compared to to that plenty seems extremely easy comparatively at least yeah i'll co-sign that elder like if if i didn't have nick reese uh on tap for for support then i would not have got anywhere from Yeah, same. But I think, speaking of Nick, his talk was really nice. I think it showcased the strengths of BuilderJS pretty well. It did. And it showed me kind of, because I knew of it and I knew roughly about it. I didn't know much about it in depth. And I was looking forward to the talk because I wanted to actually see it, building a sort of simple app in it. And it is exactly what I thought it would be, which is, it is specifically designed for SEO. it's not something you'd use to build your your application website your your you know an online shop or something necessarily it's it's something you build to build an online estate of of highly indexable content for for marketing which is it fits perfectly but a very different offering to say plenty anyway so i haven told nick this so i you know i just i just think out loud and reflect my thoughts here building a static site generator for seo that's a weird branding thing to me because seo to me sounds like make it fast you know make it statically rendered put all the right meta tags and then you know write great content that has nothing inherently to do with the static site generator. That's where I really struggle with this idea. For him, also, he really cares about massive scale. So even his demos are just always a lot of pages. And you can really see that it's built for size. So to me, the build for size and the islands architecture, like the whole zero JS by default thing, that appears more to me than build for SEO. Because SEO, to me, sounds like just set some meta tags. Yeah, I think I agree there. I guess my takeaway was that what it's doing is actually generating a lot of content that's indexable without having to write all that content manually. So taking a set of data and giving different views of that data and then positioning those views of that data in that search engine can quite easily interpret and use. And Google is going to sort of pull out the little questions and summaries it has more easily from that content. and it's going to have more relevance because you're taking, it's like when you're applying for jobs and you have a bunch of CVs, resumes, and you tailor those resumes for each job. So in this resume, I'm a strong JavaScript developer. In this resume, I'm a strong Node developer kind of thing. So I think that's for me where I see ElderJS fitting. I should probably also want to shout out one thing on which I changed my mind, which I think that's a very useful thing for other people to think about. So I used to be very excited about this idea of MDX. Like you write Markdown and then you write some Svelte inside of it or you write some React inside of it. And it becomes a React component or a Svelte component. I think I've changed my mind on that. And now I don't use MDX anymore. And ElderJS has this idea of shortcodes. And I think that that's actually more future-proof. And I think that's what Nick Weiss also calls it. And I really believe in that now, I think. because it separates the idea of like, I can have that content with the short code, but I can choose to reimplement the short code in whatever other feature framework that I wish to have And the only thing that I have a dependency on is the format of like what the opening and closing tag of the short code and all the metadata that i provide there i don need all the other stuff because i going to probably take it out of it take it out anyway into some kind of layout component or some kind of reusable you know replacement for like h1 a tag but whatever so i think i changed my mind on that specific thing so i just figured i'd share it i i don't know obviously penguin may not be too happy to hear that because i was a big supporter i was like oh yeah md specs is like the future and then i was like i was like maybe not well yeah well short shortcodes is is a thing from like the wordpress era right probably earlier than that even but it's one of those things like i i'd completely forgotten about shortcodes like after i started using svelte but then when once you realized how how powerful they actually are for static static content like this or like generating content from other content and putting it into to a short code like count counting stuff and all sorts of things it's uh it kind of becomes a must-have i think when you start using them i think i think one thing that i wish people were more thoughtful about is how graceful degradation looks like. For example, if I was blogging in MD specs, right, then I'd have a whole bunch of like different Svelte components in my MDX, in my markdown. But if I was going to render that to RSS, what does that mean? I don't know. It's going to come up like a jumble of stuff. But then when people implement shortcodes, they'll do things like, okay, I want to embed a YouTube video inside of my content, right? So I'll say, you know, shortcode, open tag, YouTube, and then the ID. But that also doesn't degrade very gracefully. What I actually want to do is paste the YouTube URL. So if someone comes along without the MDX parsing, the shortcode parsing, we can still just click the URL. Yeah. That makes sense. I could probably write an ElderJS plugin for that. My problem with this is not ElderJS. It's actually Dev2. I use Dev2 as my CMS and then I syndicate it to ElderJS. By the way, that's an SEO hack because Dev2 forwards all the canonical traffic to your domain. So I don't know how long this is going to last, but it's a very, very quick way to rank very highly on Google. I'm going to edit this out. Keep it for myself. I'm just joking.

 Should we move on to some of the other talks that we saw? We talked shortly about MD Svex just now, or Sean did mention it. So we might as well talk about Peter's talk, the replicant. That was mind-blowing to me. I had no idea how repls work behind the scenes and how you bundle stuff into browser. That's crazy. The fact that people like this just casually do things like this for talks is mind-blowing. yeah it's way above uh my pay grade for sure i think mine too it was great though it was nice in a way because it introduced like so many topics in a kind of beginner friendly way in a sense like you use typescript and svelte for example that's not something you often see he wrote a roll-up plugin like all of these things is to me are not something i know a lot about like writing roll-up plugins or bundling and all of that yeah i mean it was well explained it was obviously the whole thing was live coded effectively it's uh quite a feat it's one of those things again you know that goes back to you can do a sort of high level talk or you can go in depth on something and that's just massively massively more more challenging i think especially then to add live coding as well so yeah i think for listeners i kind of stress the business value of doing something like this. The whole point is to decrease the barrier to trying something out. If I have to download anything, you've probably lost like 90% of the people who visit your site and hear about you. If I can hit your site and then see something live immediately and just play with it, then you have a higher chance of people getting it and then actually trying it out on their local machine. So one example that recently happened was Tailwind. They've always had some sort of, you know, on their landing page, some animation of what the concept is. But they also recently released a Tailwind Playground. And that's also another process of like, we have to have some kind of compiler in the browser type of situation. But it lets you try it out and it also lets you share it. As much as the Svelte REPL is so useful within the Svelte community, I generally feel like Svelte would not be as big today if Svelte REPL did not exist. So it's a similar thing to basically everything in developer tooling. Like if you are trying to come up with a new format, like a FAD bundle, show me how to validate and verify my config file. Or I doing consulting for Temporal and we want to show a different programming model And right now people have to pull a Docker container and run it just to see what it like What if they could just run it in the browser? So I think this technology is like a really good foundation for demonstrating anything. And I think, you know, I'm on Penguin's readme, which like he actually cares about docs, which is amazing. And he's got, you know, like the Ruby playground, the Go playground, Rust playground, TypeScript playground, everyone prioritizes this for a good reason. Yeah, I think speaking of the Svelte REPL, we should probably try to make that indexable somehow. One thing I want to do is save to Svelte Society or something like that with a good name, a description, and then people can heart it. We can sort by most favorited REPL. Or just like, you want an example of a modal, here's like 10 different modals all in a REPL. I would love to do that. Somehow. Yeah. I mean, so the Svelte REPL, you know, you can save and you can save endlessly and paginate the results. But that's about it. It really lacks functionality to delete, to rename, to re-index, you know, to share, add sharing links, you know, is not as straightforward as it could be. So it would be really cool to build a kind of top list of those. I think it would be a really good feature. So if anyone's out there listening and fancies a task, a little project, there you go. I'm keen on that. I'm keen on that. I want to pick it up as part of my AWS work as well. It's a race, Sean. It's a race. You've got to race the Svelte community. Some other talks. We had a talk on data visualization, saving democracy with Svelte. That was not the title. I think that was my tweet about it. So, yeah, I just kind of was the hype man on Twitter. That was a good talk. It's always nice seeing data viz and Svelte. And then also given the two recent IPOs for data exploration companies, that's super interesting, isn't it? Because it's kind of a hot topic right now. Well, the Snowflake is one. You mean Snowflake? No. Well, Snowflake recently did a big IPO and then Palantir did one straight afterwards as well. Palantir, I know. Isn't that known as one of those? They do a lot of defense. Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's slightly controversial. I honestly don't believe that. I haven't looked into it enough to form a judgment, so I'm trying not to judge. But yeah, so it's interesting because that data visualization piece was specifically interesting. Just because you know that a real world use case has felt pushing the bar a bit because data vis is quite difficult to get everything in a browser in a performant way is tough The moment you start adding loads of nodes and loads of data points everything starts to slow down. And I think therefore, you could really showcase the advantage that a compiled framework and also something as lightweight and well thought out as felt can provide to data visualization. I think that's a perfect use case, in fact. I think there may be enough here. So I see a lot of adoption among data viz people. Like we had Amelia Wanberger on this podcast. Actually, during the conference, Moritz Stefaner, I enjoy his podcast, Data Stories. He's a well-known data viz guy. And obviously, I think, you know, they use Svelte a lot for data viz at the New York Times. I think there's like a French, Nate Echo. There's also a data viz shop using Svelte. I think there's enough here for like a dedicated event for Svelte database people to really focus, shine a light on this and share tools. Pancake is another one that didn't get a showing like this summit, but like it seems like it's picking up Steve and database. Pancake is the one I'm thinking the right one on time where it basically renders an SDG first. So it's actually a server side graphing framework, which is quite rare. And I think that's quite a special feature that should be noted. a data viz conf that would be that would be neat well you know when when svelte society is big enough we can have multiple tracks right we can have data viz track and we can have the sort of deployment track and yeah we actually talked about that yesterday in the in the retro about having maybe potentially multiple tracks i don't think we actually decided on anything but yeah i don't think we committed to that right now but it's possible in the future i think we're very inspired by Next.js Conf, which was also happening yesterday. And they had four tracks. And I'm a bit conflicted about it because like, yeah, it's this whole, I'm very familiar with this dilemma for conference organizers because if you have a single track conference, then you have a shared experience and everyone can chat with everyone else. Whereas you have a multi-track conference, you have more choice, but then you also give people more choice stress. And you have a sharded experience where if you went to a particular conference, you don't necessarily know if anyone else shared the same experiences you did but i'd also you know to sort of on the on the counter of that i'd say that if you've got a linear conference and there are talks in the middle that you're not interested in then you've got to sort of break up your day a bit more whereas if you a database person then you can kind of focus on the database track so yeah i think it has advantages disadvantages i i also believe as sean mentioned that the the non experiences is a richer experience and a better experience so i would say right now especially that that certainly tops uh any other any reasons for for having multiple tracks so i went to a conference in london where we had two tracks right and and there was no particular theme it was just track A, track B. There was one talk on React hooks. And then the other talk was testing in React. And the entire audience just left the testing track and just went to React hooks. It was just so sad. I sat in the testing talk just out of sympathy, but I was just feeling so bad. This also happened. That's horrible. It happened at the Bitcoin conference where, well, blockchain cryptocurrency conference, I went to loads of different tracks on different tokens and stuff. And, and, uh, of course the main stage got taken by Roger Ver shilling his Bitcoin cash that no one cared about. I've never seen a large room so empty in my life because it was just about him. Oh, it was empty. It was empty because it was Bitcoin cash and no one cares about Bitcoin cash. That's so funny. So yeah. Is he Bitcoin Jesus? Okay, but we don't have to turn this to the world. I mean, he's Bitcoin cash. He latched onto a fork, bought loads of them, multimillionaire, but no one else cares about that token. It is a crypto space, man. Yeah. It's madness. It's picking up again. It's cool again. Crypto and Svelte are correlated. I've been talking about this. We should do a Svelte coin. Yeah. Probably not. No. We can mine in the browser with our rebels. Yeah. Svelte is so fast, you wouldn't even notice. Yeah, right. Quick shout out to Annie's talk, Meowflix. I think in speaking, you always have service X for animal Y. Corey Quinn always has Twitter for dogs and Twitter for pets, something like that. It's just a nice, fun thing. So Netflix for cats is always a good theme. But the extent to which she committed to this theme was really impressive because she has basically cat versions of every single popular movie, like Meowvatar, The Cat of Wall Street, Game of Paws.

 eat per leap yes it's just great well done and the talk was nice as well like the intro was awesome with the flying like star wars like cats and i don't know it's pretty pretty neat yeah you know conferences are a mix of entertainment and education and maybe sometimes we skew too much towards like and education or just like you know i want to see i don't want to stare at a code screen all the time and you know i think i agree yeah i more more creativity is nice it's like the the talk from from svelte society day like back in spring the creative coding session that was awesome it's it's super nice to get you know to convey a convey a complex message as well with uh with something like cats i think that's quite a skill you know it keeps it keeps it more digestible there are a couple of other talks as well like the so you want to pick a router that was great on like pretty much the fundamentals of routers and his router as well and we also had one on modern fetch and svelte using stores also a great like example of a custom store i think and it's something that i think a lot of people talk about as well you know is how can i basically build data fetching into my store so yeah nice to cover off uh a few questions very good example so there's actually one talk on this uh on the svelte summit website that wasn't in the conference i don't know if you guys noticed but learn svelte using react so that talk was released today yes i'm gonna release it today unfortunately i didn't there was some issue with getting the file to me So he had uploaded it on some service that didn't allow it to be downloaded. So I didn't have time to sort that out, unfortunately. So we're going to release that as a bonus episode. Exciting. A few more talks. We have, ooh, unlocking the power of Svelte actions. Yeah, this is the one. I'll pay for them. Yeah. I definitely like that one. Yeah. But I think he has some really good ideas for actions that I never thought about. I think people like use CSS. Yeah, I think also like the fact that you can use the lifecycle hooks inside of the actions is not something I had considered like after update for example or it was after update right I i don remember but yeah great talk and good ideas for for actions as well and then the last talk we have introduction to sweet as well and the svelte animations i think he felt a little bit blindsided by his fault kit yeah maybe that could have been communicated a bit better but uh i mean i i've i've enjoyed veet and sweet Yeah, absolutely. I think they've also, you know, they've all sort of these other frameworks have had some very valuable ideas that we're considering heavily when building Svelte kit. And I think that we've now got all these people involved to some extent. So hopefully it's more palatable to them that we've kind of, you know, taken a bit of their crown away. But no, I think they're all happy to help out because obviously it's fostering the best possible experience for Svelte users. So, yeah, so it's all working well. I appreciate that it feels like blindsiding. The problem, of course, is that you can't really pre-announce something before it exists. Rich did go away and Bill SvelteKit, what you sort of saw in that demo, in a ridiculously quick time, as is kind of his MO. But, I mean, it sort of appeared out of nowhere for us, too, based on kind of discussions we've been having and mulling over for a long time that suddenly appeared, which is great. so um it's very hard to announce something when you when you also don't know about it yourself but yeah absolutely but it should it should hopefully sort of bring some of these ideas together as well make something really really cool and nice i'm looking forward to it as well yeah same here we had a couple of beginner talks as well like the scent of uh of uh svelte that was nice like the intro talk by morgan it was very sad and i think he did his research he put He put in some previous talks from Rich. The coffee cup was nice. I'm not sure what I learned from it. Apart from what I can say. The production value was nuts. Like it looked so good with like the moving TV background. It's probably like a DSLR or something. Yeah. Yeah. And we had also prototyping testing, real data. So that was Daniel. He's the guy who's doing the newsletter as well. Oh, that's right. I'm pretty keen on making the newsletter more of a thing so that we as a community don't only stick on Discord and Twitter. I think there's probably a lot more people to reach beyond just Discord and Twitter. All right. So the last talk of the conference was Rich futuristic web development That was new to everyone pretty much Just to set the context for people who may not know the backstory when we organized this conference, we put out a bunch of CFPs. Obviously, Rich is always on the table and just like, hey, if you're free, we know you're busy and there's an election going on. There's more important things in the world than a JS framework conference. But, you know, if you ever wanted to submit something, and then I think he like never responded on that until like a week before. No, no, it was it was less than that. I think it was just like two or three days or something. No, more. Maybe it was a week. It was very like short notice for sure. But we managed to get it in. So that was nice. Well, it's funny because I guess around that time he said, I'm going on holiday. And so he went on holiday. And then when he came back, Scotland was written. So I'm not sure what kind of holiday it was. I think we can probably ask him about it on next episode. So he's coming on. Oh yeah, teaser. We actually booked it for next week. Yes. We can touch on this, I guess. Like what is SvelteKit? Can you give us an overview, Anthony? I can. So SvelteKit as it currently stands. And again, we've not really said much about it. It is still kind of closed off to the sort of public view. the reason being that it's very hard to work on something when you've got a lot of people weighing in at the same time and right now we have a bunch of maintainers and it's already difficult so to have everything everyone else involved as well would be extremely difficult and it probably wouldn't move so i think what we've done is we've tried to close it off build something build a kind of baseline and then produce that baseline and what that baseline currently looks like is essentially a serverless first framework it will handle uh it will be very modular so all everything is a bunch of modules plugged together uh you can the idea being kind of pull in and pull out what you want it will essentially do we hope as much as possible it will be a like for like for sapper right now so making the migration path from sapper to svelte kit very simple and it has various abstractions over deployment. So solving that problem, I've built a SAP application, where do I put it? How do I host it? More that that kind of is almost built in as a first first class citizen via adapters, which people know a little bit about that will take the compiled output of the Svelte app project the Svelte kit project and turn that into a specific layout and manifest in that it can be deployed to a variety of providers That's the current status quo. It can handle completely staffily rendered things. It can handle dynamic pages. I believe what we've got to now is a point where you can actually have an application composed of both those types of things. Yeah, and I guess the reason you've not heard too much about it and there's not been like a roadmap publicly or anything is because that brings along with it a level of commitment and given the schedules, the ever-changing schedules of the maintainers and the people working on this that are not maintainers right now, what that means is we end up with over-committing and publishing a schedule that probably won't come to fruit in the way it will and potentially promising things that never materialize or when they appear are very different. So it's intentionally kind of a vague idea with a little preview right now of what it looks like. By all means, run the node modules, play around with it, do what you can. But right now, I think the best thing to do is just accept that that's how it is. And when we get to making it public, it'll be a very exciting time because everyone can investigate how it works. And we expect a huge influx of modules based on what people have been saying. So that's pretty exciting. And I just hope that day comes sooner rather than later. let's hope it comes soon yeah so if you try this out don't don't like post about bugs on github about it probably right yeah the likelihood is the bug is known by us the likelihood is that the bug by the time you write that github issue it will have completely changed anyway so the bug will be relevant that's kind of the reason for well yeah there'll be plenty of bugs for every bug we can make two more bugs right but yeah it's a it's a rapidly changing landscape with no particular kind of i would say it's directionless but it's obviously there's lots of different directions and experiments going on so there will be bugs there are definitely dragons which is a famous rich phrase i believe right i should mention a couple because i work in like public communication so i know that this is the point where we talk about frequently asked questions so the first thing is is the is the you know fear uncertainty and doubt from essentially deprecating sapper and and not having a replacement. So it's important to understand that the maintainers of SvelteKit and Sapper are the same people. And they have large production apps like Antony, and they are very keen on a smooth migration path. And Rich is also very aware that leaving Sapper

 and limbo like this for a long time isn't a good thing for Svelte. So he wants it in weeks rather than months. That's the first FAQ. Then the second FAQ is also why not Vite and why Snowpack? And I think the main answer is Vite is too tied into the Vue ecosystem and Snowpack is more agnostic. And yeah, those are the two FAQs that I saw on Twitter. Yeah. We, you know, Vite is an interesting question because obviously Svelte works and it's really good. the fact is that if we start depending on external things then we can't make the decisions that we want to make in the most optimal way because we're always at the behest of some other person who maybe has different interests than we do so yeah not not at all a slight on vite or vita whatever it's called i think it's brilliant but it has some baked in decisions that you can't change and we need to have the flexibility to change the decisions and snowpack is excellent so uh it's one of those things it definitely makes sense yeah and snowpack is headed in exactly the direction we want to be in so so yeah but again like snowpack's not set in stone it's looking very probable right now but it's not set in stone everything is still very much in flux this is our second event conference whatever you call it online the first time around uh it was felt society day in april and uh you know i think something that we that we did last time that we didn't do this time was the live REPL offs. Because it was more live, we could actually interact with Kev as he was struggling to keep his internet up. Sweating profusely. And we had some fun countdown timer challenges. And then this time around I tried to get that started again but essentially picked a challenge that was too hard. But I think it's something that it's a tradition unique to us that we'll probably try to keep up next time. I think I'm pretty much decided on doing this in a more live version next time. So going back to Svelte Society Day style. Really? Yeah, but using something like StreamYard that doesn't really rely on my connection. So we can avoid the technical issues. And even if we do get some technical issues, I think that's fine. I think it's worth the trade-off. People are very understanding. Yeah and it worth the trade of getting these live fun games going between the talks I think that the route we be taking Speaking of doing that there will be another Svelte Summit in spring Oh we saying spring now Okay Yeah. I guess I just decided as well. No, I mean, I also posted the Malfuji thing. Oh yeah, you did with a hush emoji, like the shush, like the keep quiet. Hush, hush. Nobody saw it. I like that. But no, I think we enjoy it. I think it's a good thing for the Svelte community. Got a lot of attention from people who don't currently use Svelte. So I think this is something that we're doing a really good job for and we want to keep up the momentum. Yeah, it was super fun. And next time it will be even more fun because I don't have to do the manual emailing and stuff. So great. Some other things from Retro, we want more women speakers. We only had any this time. I think we're going to make more of an effort to invite more women and just make it clear that they're explicitly welcome and to showcase their talents. I tried to contact some others, but I think I did it too last minute. So we didn't manage to do it this time, but it's a priority for us. the event was kind of long it was like seven hours and definitely people were kind of tired by the end so we all just went to sleep instead of having like an after party so probably we're going to make it shorter and that means a bit more selection pressure than already it was this time around and and so i think there should be more room for non like it shouldn't be just twice a year a conference uh it should be like small meet small meetups elsewhere as well and we can host everything on a youtube channel and spread the knowledge so i'm very keen on like you know what can we do outside of the conference i don't know many other frameworks that have like a kind of a specific youtube channel for their stuff in this in the same way that svelte or svelte society does so i think that's probably something we can we can leverage in a good way oh yeah yeah youtube is the second biggest search engine so we should dominate seo are we gonna start doing some black hat ceo now um like with keyword stuffing and all all of that i don't i know nothing about that learn css 101 and then it just uses spell without telling you yeah i love that that awesome all right let move uh move on to to pics pics and anthony was very excited I very excited My pick bizarrely is the the british plug right it the uk plug and the reason it a pick is because it was really i was really reminded i knew about this anyway but i was reminded that this is the best plug design in the world and the reason being is because of all the safety features it has so for instance the longer earth pin that opens the slots for the live and neutral so when you're putting the plug in because it looks kind of janky and too oversized and stuff when you're putting it in there's no chance of you touching that life pin because the gates aren't the gates aren't open there's no connection until it's far enough in that your finger won't get there so that's pretty cool it's big and chunky like this you know they're usually this size i know that apple tend to reduce them but it's so that you can get a good grip on it and pull it out and that's it's fantastic obviously they all they all tend to verse you know apart from a few devices they all have earths there's like a million things they've thought about when building this plug and the net result is it's not particularly pretty but it really works well and i think i think the other thing is you know you can buy these these kid proof adapters to put in your plug sockets and you can buy off my kia and stuff like that and people put them in there and they block up the holes on the socket but it's actually an anti-pattern that right because the sockets have this this health and safety built in the gates are closed you can't ram anything in the holes unless you open the earth first and then ram something in a hole and that's not going to happen you know a kid is not going to do that by accident so those those little adapters you can give plug sockets are actually anti-pattern because there's a potential to actually try and remove them break them off leaving the gates for the live and neutral open right so that they're actually worse they're less safe than not having anything in the sockets which just blows my mind why why is that why is that a thing oh and they're all they're all fused as well they all have a fuse in them you unscrew this screw here and there's a fuse in the in the left there it's a great design so i i think it's just it's it's like a tidbit but it's worth noting that uh this is a genuinely good plug design we're not just we don't just love big ugly things sticking out our walls but yeah that's my pick nice that's a that's a strange pick i know i i love i love that he's so passionate about this yes it's good to appreciate the design of Everyday Things, that classic book. And I think it's picking up again with 99% Invisible, the podcast that also focuses on the design of everyday things. And I think they just put out a book, so much so that my dad heard about it And I was like wow you heard about it That must mean it mean it hit the mainstream the only follow question i have is you know the american plugs usually there are two pins but you know there a three three pin version does it do the same thing because it kind of has the long line yeah i don't know i don't think it does you'll see that you haven't got this you see this like i've got this plastic bit on the pins here so that even if i get it halfway in and stick my finger there i can't touch the actual pin i see yours doesn't have that it doesn't no none of them have that but also without the earth the u.s plug tends to wobble out the wall doesn't it i remember seeing that in america when i was there plugs are hard i'm not i'm not defending it i'm just i'm just no no i'm curious when i was mentioning that well we were talking about this either day with some friends actually that's what we do okay that's just who we are but essentially he he's in australia right he's australia and they they also have a a similar plug design to us now a bit more recently obviously but it's actually based on an early design of the us plug from 1972 i think but all all it is is exactly the us plug but the but the pins are twisted to a slight diagonal right so that it doesn't fall out the wall as easily and it has an earth pin and i believe and i can't verify this because i'm he wasn't entirely sure but i think it also has the gate system so that the earth pin opens the two other gates but yeah so the aussies are the aussies are you know up there with it but come on this is the best one this is this is why it's in hong kong as well right i'd argue it's uh the european one is better but yep that's just me anyway my pick is almond butter have you guys had almond butter it's it's the best nut butter you can get love it i've been recently i've been like doing how how many nut butters are there one for each nut so peanut butter that did not come out the way you intended it no no no sorry peanut butter almond butter pistachio butter pecan butter macadamia nutter and have you have you scientifically tried all of these i have not i know test but but i love them like i i've recently been eating a lot of smoothies and nut butters go very well with smoothies. They are good. They are good in smoothies. That's a good pick. I mean, so it's interesting because my wife is now doing sort of dairy-free stuff and it's using these butters and these milks alternatives. I would love to share in that with her and support her, but

 these especially almond butter i think it is and and soy milk or soy yogurt it has a very bad effect on my stomach so i have to stick with dairy it's a good job i'm not intolerant because a lot of those butters are not not good with me at all so yeah they're quite delicious actually especially almond ones cashew butter is another is another one nice one i feel like i've been not adventurous enough with my butter you haven't tried these things you should i'm still i'm still at the margarine butter boundary i'm not i'm not at the advanced stages of have you had butter peanut butter yeah yeah but i don't like it's too sweet too too sticky oh yeah maybe there's a special phobia for peanut butter uh stuck into the back of your mouth really it is claggy it is claggy it does get stuck in your mouth right the whole earth one is is great because the whole earth was just there's no like palm oil or anything in it it's just ground up peanuts and that one's quite it's It's not sweet. It's not salty because you haven't put any salt in there or anything. Yeah. If you do get a nut butter, you should definitely get one that's just 100% of the particular nut. Yeah. Okay. This is the peanut butter podcast. Arachi butyrophobia. That's the fear of peanut butter sticking to the roof of your mouth. Interesting name. It's a very common thing. I can see that. I don't know. I can see that. There's two phobias that I've memorized. Anyways, that one, and then the hippopotamonstrosis kerbidylophobia, which is the fear of long words. Oh, ironic. Yeah. So Sean what your pick Okay my pick the opposite So after you had your almond butter then you should work out more So my pick is working out I did a poll on Twitter How often are you working out right now 43% out of 3000 votes said they're not working out at all. And obviously there's a lot of stress going on with life, with working at home. But at some point it becomes an excuse and we still have to take care of ourselves no matter what the situation. And I definitely was not doing that. I'm not judging other people because I was also not working out. But I started working out again recently and I'm feeling better. And I just want to encourage and remind people that they can do it, go from zero to one times a week. About 27% of people work out three to five times a week and that's probably the right amount. So just keep doing that. Awesome. Yeah, I think it's a good one because I actually work out more during lockdown and it's occurred to me how little I worked out before lockdown. So yeah, definitely worth getting into. Yeah, I think there are memes like circulating around where you're like, it's the pre-COVID sort of picture of a cartoon man. And then there's an after picture and it's either like this huge fat person or it's like the super muscular one. So you either go down the path of working out a lot more or you go down the path of eating a lot more. I think that kind of holds true for a lot of people. For example, me, I have trouble doing things in moderation i always do things like a hundred percent well so you know reminder to be healthy and to eat well and to not electrocute yourself that's definitely good and also eat almond butter all right and on that note thanks for listening and we'll be back in a couple of weeks again bye bye bye