 Hey everyone, welcome to another episode of Svelte Radio. We have a special episode today about the upcoming event, Svelte Summit. But before we begin, we are going to introduce ourselves. So I'm Kevin, I run Svelte School, and then we have Sean and Anthony. I'm Sean, I work at AWS, and I recently rewrote my blog in ElderJS. It's fully done now. Hi, I'm Anthony. i'm the ctf bionc and i'm also a svelte maintainer all right cool svelte summit are you guys excited i'm pumped very awesome awesome i am as well we have so many great talks lined up and compared to to the svelte society day that we had a couple of months ago or half a year ago yeah i think We only got like 12 proposals, but this time we got around 40. So we're growing. That's great. And I guess we can talk a bit about some of the talks. Let's start with the... Yeah. I guess I also wanted to reflect a little bit on the journey that we took to get here. All three of us, we started Svelte meetups in the cities that we lived in a year ago. actually the first time i came out the name spell society was was like at the very first meetup in new york where just kind of like introducing it to to people and then i i said like in one year we could have like a it was it was like a very tentative question mark but i knew that the name was right so yeah it does work well yeah so maybe we could have bought the domain back then but uh i think it all i think it all worked out i didn't have confidence or faith that i i could do it so definitely like a lot of credit goes to kev for being the the lead organizer for uh for all this this is amazing that that you actually got all these people together and organized all this so massive kudos to kev absolutely yeah yeah it is actually quite a lot of work when you think about it or rather it's like it comes and goes like the workload so at times you have a lot of a lot to do and then like for example this week i'm gonna have a lot to do because i have to edit all the talks together into one big talk And you have to do the website and all of this stuff But for next time we probably just going to reuse the the website for a variation of it at least i think it works well it looks good wolf did a great job on the design as well and yeah and uh you know community conferences are definitely driven by volunteers and i imagine every framework every programming language runs into this when they're just getting off the ground and it takes people like you people like us to just volunteer and not wait for some other person to do it yeah it's very easy to just wait for something to happen but if everyone does that it's never gonna happen right so it's it's it's a lot of fun as well you get that's one thing i noticed like being involved in the community opens a lot of doors you get to meet a lot of people talk to a lot of people that you probably otherwise wouldn't have talked to so that's also fun yeah i also think yeah like even even the guests the guests that we've had on it's even on this podcast was has been pretty good actually yeah yeah no i think it's i think it's quite you know it's something to organize a meetup in in your town kind of thing that was it was difficult for me because it's not something i've really done or thought i could do before but i think that taking that to a sort of global scale is is a lot more difficult and it's something that i probably still don't think i could do so so yeah like like uh like sean says well done kev i think that's that's something that's uh you've really put sort of pushed the bar out there i think it's funny because i in some ways i think it's easier and in others it's it's harder for some reason i was about to say that like because when i was i think we organized like maybe five or six swell society new york's before before everything shut down and i was responsible for booking the venue like getting everyone in the door like sometimes the instructions to get in the building were bad and then people be calling me and emailing me and then at the same time like doing being mc or i try to sort of farm out that job but sometimes i'll be the fallback and then also speaking because it's hard to find speakers and then also being responsible for av like being recording it and putting online because i think the majority of the talks audience is always going to be online so you always want to to promote the youtube and all that stuff like that So in one sense, like doing online gets rid of all the physical stuff. So you can just post straight to YouTube. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So this time around, we also have sponsors. That's a pretty big milestone, I suppose. Yes. Thank you, Daddy Bezos. All right. Let talk about the speakers or rather their talks I was thinking we could start with Svelte at the edge powering Svelte apps with Cloudflare workers Have you guys worked with workers? I haven't. I haven't, no. I think they're sort of like, I guess you could call them just serverless functions, right? With a twist? Because they're like web workers? Yeah, it seems like they're tiny little functions that sort of a lot like serverless is on other platforms, but more kind of, I guess they have a lot less power than a real serverless function. But it makes them ideal for just sort of shipping out to edge nodes everywhere. So it's pretty cool. So I think this talk is by Luke Edwards, and I think he's going to talk about server-side rendering Svelte on the edge, which is a pretty cool idea. Yeah. I'm super excited to see it. I'm always interested in what you can pump into a tiny little function. yeah low power devices are fascinating to me so this is kind of like i guess virtual low power devices like running your website on a pie that's fancy yeah you know i think so you know having worked at netlify netlify also released well netlify announced edge functions recently which are kind of in a similar category to workers the thing i caution people so like what specifically is less powerful, right? So we're talking like lower memory, but I think that the main restriction that people should be aware of is that the response time has to be very fast. Like it used to be acceptable for Lambda function or for like a serverless function to respond in 300 milliseconds and you can go up to 15 minutes if you want to. But for edge function, you need to respond probably in less than 10 milliseconds or like on that order of magnitude, right? Like because everything in there is serving every asset that you request. So if you run a slow running function, then your website delivery is going to be very slow, which also means that you can't do a lot of logic in there, but you can do some. And I think that's where people are going to push the boundaries. I just want to caution people. This isn't like, let me take one serverless function and just shiver to the edge and it'll be magically faster. No, like this is exactly like Anthony's right. This is an embedded device that you happen to be running closer to your sort of viewer's location. So you can do things like internationalization, like same URL, send people to different languages based on the IP or their browser sort of headers. But then also the thing that Cloudflare is really really innovating on which no one else is doing is KV stores and durable objects So they have compute That the thing that workers But when you add in some form of persistence, so KV stores are eventually consistent, durable objects are strongly consistent. Then you get to do some things like authentication at the edge and whatever, like just storing basic bits of data. That's actually pretty interesting. I was this weekend, I was tinkering with actually doing like building my own authentication service. Yes, I know you shouldn't do that. Mostly for learning, right? Yeah. And it's pretty cool because you can, you can store the sessions in KV probably, and you can also store like user information. So you'll have like, and then the thing with Cloudflare is you can just like, you can just park your dna like your domain there and then you just get your have your worker on the route and you automatically get authentication for free sort of it's it's interesting actually i will say one thing sean there is another service doing kb and it's actually really a really attractive proposition it's begin.com are doing it as well um yes it's something i agree that's been missing from a lot of providers for a long time the cell for instance doesn't have it and it's just it's so valuable and i think it's a really interesting innovation like you said the funny thing is that so begins kv is actually just dynamo db and like everyone could do this it's just that no one's like aggressive enough and brian larue and ryan blockett begin are extremely aggressive with serverless technology yeah so then it gets down to like latencies right like cloudflare the marketing that they have of kv is that it's really sort of distributed whereas the dynamo db one i haven't done any benchmarks like it couldn't it may not be as distributed as cloud first offering is which with the corresponding impact on latency but most people don't care so that's fine yeah all right so svelte at the edge then let's move on to the next talk elder js you building search engine optimized friendly sites with svelte and elder js that's a mouthful um svelte summit is actually built on elder jays really i had a wow yeah i had a great time building it i think nick is going to pretty much show us how to get started with elder jays which is great has some concepts that are a bit hard to grasp at first but that had become clear pretty quickly i don't know if you have any thoughts on that i think this was interesting to me because

 I don't have time to experiment with all these new frameworks and sort of engines. And I think that having a visual tutorial, as much as I don't really do video tutorials, I think having a visual tutorial is really interesting because I definitely want to static generate everything I have, but it's not always easy. Yeah. Usually a lot harder. The thing about ElderJS is that Nick has a very particular way of thinking. That's the way that he phrases it. I've talked a lot with him as I ran into issues. So you kind of have to buy into that idea. But otherwise, it's very well-written. It's very well-documented. I have rewritten my site. It is a lot less JS than even my Sapper site because it's using the island's architecture. It doesn't rehydrate the entire DOM even though nothing changes in the DOM. It only rehydrates the parts of the DOM that changes. And I think that's something that Jason Miller at Google is kind of really pushing. So this will be an important crowning of ElderJS as a real thing. Yeah, yeah. It's going to be awesome. All right. Then we have Replicant by Peter Allen. The in-house penguin, you could also call him, I guess. Oh, he has a real name? I thought we were not... I thought we just... Yeah, he does. He uses it for talks only. It's like his talk name. I'm not sure it's his real name, you know. It's just like a pseudonym for talks. i'm not sure it's it's the real picture as well like yeah i think i think i think he just hires a guy to play him uh but he's actually a penguin yeah that's a sneaky move so i think this talk is going to be on how you pretty much build a repl which is something i have no idea how to do and it sounds super advanced so that's going to be a lot of fun isn't there isn't there ongoing work to split out the REPL from the Svelte site? It's kind of already split up because the REPL, I mean, I can't remember what it's called, it's CodeMirror or something like that, but it's already split out and somebody actually opened a PR to document exactly how to set up an isolation, which is really good because it is tricky to do that. Yeah, I'm using it on Svelte School, but I got the idea from one of Peter's talks. He used a REPL in one of his talks, so I kind of just copied the way he did it, sort of, and it works. he's one of these developers that builds just like very impressive projects to serve his own needs and then you find it and you're like how come this is not well not better known yeah and so I think his Bristol I think that was his was his talk at bristol js or bristol so i highly recommend people check out that talk because he made his own slide deck because that how that's what developers do with the rebel embedded inside with live uh reloading and all that and yeah mb specs was also really good like look at the docs and look at the penguin walking around like i'm pretty excited anytime penguin puts out stuff yeah super satisfying to to go to the website and look at the penguin walk back and forth for sure all right so next talks this obviously is my favorite talk right the unlocking the power of svelte actions yeah so uh this is going to be a fun one i think i'm hoping to learn a lot because i love actions who is speaking inter alia so who's that so this is uh kirill vasiltzav i probably butchered his name um but yeah so this is going to be interesting i'm not entirely sure what we'll learn about but it says custom events and extending dom attributes sharing animation logic so that sounds fun i mean this is this is just a guaranteed to get picked for the for the conference right hate why no no he's guaranteed to be picked because i'm guaranteed to this is a conference organizer optimization um coo talk for development i think the more everyone understands the usefulness of actions and the more we congeal on a set of actions that everybody uses then the more we can sort of build it in and i'm still hopeful for some built-in actions like i keep having to look up like click outside and you know simple actions like that like those are as useful as animations like we should have them built in yeah let's i should probably do some do like a library on the for the rfc and see yeah that's true that's true that happens with that if not then the library will exist anyway right yeah well i see so i think that actions are underappreciated because obviously i mean they're super useful they're adding behavior to svelte without having to actually edit svelte itself or or try and get a sort of pr approved that changes the or increases the api footprint which obviously is not something we like doing but yeah unlike animations you don't really hear them that often it's it's weird and i guess the reason being you can do the stuff you do in actions outside of actions but you really shouldn because it just great to have it as a sort of reusable tool and i think that you that having a talk on that is going to really benefit people because it will help them understand exactly how easy it is because it really is a few lines of code to essentially almost Svelte into something that does your bidding rather than having to try and work within its constraints. The Zen of Svelte by Morgan Williams. Yeah, what is that? This is interesting. so he feels that svelte is the most pythonic front-end framework ish kind of uh-huh and yeah i don't know much about python let's uh yeah so you know i think what this is about there's a popular sort of rules i think every every major language has these like the zen of python or like the rules of java or something i think zen of python is probably the most well-known one so i mean i struggle here with like the analogy because python is is a very different animal but it's also a language and uh sometimes you could you could probably draw some useful rules so this is a lightning talk right so um that could be a quick quick refresh remember actually i think so yeah is it is it yes it is yes excel excel sheet i mean python's one of those things it gets continuous hype even though it's sort of one of the oldest languages that's there really they're still in use today so it's interesting to to see how this sort of relates to something that's relatively quite new yeah all right next talk introduction to svit or svit or svit or svit i don't know what it's called i guess we'll learn yeah how to talk right so dominic is gonna talk about how to use Svite pretty much and what you can do with it. It's also lightning talk. Yeah. For those who might want to prepare for this, check out Vite from Evan Yu from the Vue ecosystem. It's spelled V-I-T-E. It basically, it's one of those dev tool bundlers that doesn't bundle during development, but then bundles during production. And that kind of gives you the benefit of hot reloading extremely quickly because you don't have to rebuild the whole thing. but then in production you can still build and i think evan you kind of built it up for view and react and then dominic kind of built the this fault to plug it and call this feat yeah it's actually really nice to to work with you get up and running really quickly i haven't used it that much and i probably should use it more it's just that like i always want to go straight to sapper or elder you know like the static rendering thing yeah but for like small applications it like if you want to make it probably works for bigger ones as well but if you just want something up and running it great yeah the other thing i mean i use it for docs yeah that makes sense there is a there is felt docs which you know i think the react ecosystem really benefits from having a tool like docusaurus which has kind of really taken over documentation and it's really i mean it's good it's a good api everyone understands it it has syntax highlighting markdown like all the standard stuff that you might want out of a documentation solution and i think svelte probably should try to get towards that but right now we have a bunch of different tools yeah yeah but i think you're going to start with you know as a newer framework you're going to start with a whole bunch of stuff and then you know there's the good ones are going to sort of shine and become more enhanced and advanced in what they are so so i think it's totally reasonable that right now you're going to have a hundred ways to do the same thing yep sure like writing like rooting yeah yeah and there's actually going to be a talk about that we can probably talk about that now so that's the it's a lightning talk about picking a router by alessandro so he's the guy that wrote one of these routing libraries so that's going to be fun i think there are there are so many routers to pick and choose from absolutely yeah it's gonna be interesting yeah and then we have a talk by ron oh hall it's not sure how to pronounce that names are hard and the title of talk is the web a la mode and so the description is the web is a mouth-watering platform fashionably served with a side of sweet reactivity take a wild ride exploring what it has to offer you and how svelte ties it all together. This is bound to be a fun talk, right? Yes. At least from the description. It's a fun title. Maybe that Ron is pretty interested in cooking, I guess. Yeah. I don't know what a la mode actually means. No, I took a sneak peek at this talk because I do have the talk so I can actually watch them already. But it does have something to do with food. So, that's fun. I think it's some kind of pancake or something. I'm a bit unsure. Let's see on Sunday. Yeah. All right. And then Lee Ha's talk, demystifying Svelte transitions. This is another one of those things that are, you kind of use the built-in transitions, but having custom transitions is interesting.

 interesting so i think liao's talk is about how it works under the hood which is always fun to yeah his blog has been just you know how svelte works under the hood like yeah it's amazing handbook so he's really taking this idea and exploring it and i think transitions is one of those black boxes thing like i never know what to put in the options and yeah there's just there's just a whole bunch of like i guess it's like css like inline styling or something but then i don't know how to transition things in and out nicely i think there's a step change between when i look at the docs and i see all the different transitions and then i try to apply them in like realistic settings and then it just doesn't look great like right yeah maybe watching this talk will make you understand how to use them as well i don't know yeah i remember one time i had a margin collapsing which was a really bad issue. Like it would just jump when the transition ended. I think the Lee House talks are really fascinating because I think one of the problems Felt has is the internals are so complex. They do something that's so different to anything else really that's out there. And I think there's just a great community service provided by Lee House that she's basically just to explain as best as possible in a kind of introductory and beginner sense how that all works. so i'm pretty excited about this talk actually because it's definitely something that i need to learn more about and you know it seems like an uphill slog sometimes so yeah yeah all right so those are the some of the talks that we going to see on at svelte summit we going to announce more of them as we get closer and there a mailing list you can join on svelte summit.com hit the sign up button and you can just enter your email and you'll get updates and i'm going to send out the first email today or tomorrow we'll see and yeah that's it oh there's other details as well you can also head to the youtube where we're going to be putting a premiere and you can if you already use youtube you can just hit the sign up or like notify me button or something or hit the bell you know like they say on youtube yeah so i think it's youtube we have a vanity url i think it's youtube.com slash svelte society it's pretty easy to remember so yeah and then and then it's it's 2 p.m right sorry go ahead yeah yeah on sunday 2 p.m gmt so that's i think you said 10 a.m est yeah 10 a.m est 10 p.m singapore time and whatever that is in british time like 3 p.m bst yeah 3 p.m but also it's you know gmt is utc right so it's ignore all the time zones utc is the only important one yeah all right so oh there's one thing i saw this morning that was pretty cool someone posted about having rebuilt their site in sapper going from gatsby and reducing the amount of code by 40 wasn't that you oh you were you were recording someone else oh okay I thought it was you. No, no, no, no. That was pretty cool to hear. So on that note, let's end the show and we'll meet up again in a couple of weeks again and talk about how Svelte Summit actually was. All right. Bye. Thank you, guys.