 Hi, in this episode we talked to Grisha Erbe about Threlt. Unfortunately, I managed to catch a cold, so I couldn't really show up for this one. Luckily, Willow of Svelte Sirens fame hopped on as a replacement. I'll be back next week, but before we go into the episode, here's a word from our sponsor, Vercel. Enjoy. the creators of Next.js, Vercel has zero configuration support for 35 plus front-end frameworks, including SvelteKit. We enable the world's largest brands like Under Armour, eBay, and Nintendo to iterate faster and create quality software. Try out Vercel today to experience the easiest way to use Svelte. Hello, welcome back to Svelte Radio. I have a new speaker introducing people today because Kev is out. I am Brittany. We have Willow as a guest star with us today from the Svelte Sirens. Swix, or Sean, is with us. And then we have a guest speaker, Grisha from Threlt. Everybody say hi. Hey. Hi. Hi. So today we are going to be talking about Threlt, what it is, and maybe some recent changes that have happened. Grisha, do you want to give us a little introduction and maybe a background of how you got started into this 3D space? Yeah. Hi, my name is Krisha and I am the creator of Threlt. In case you didn't know how to pronounce it, it's Threlt actually. And yeah, do you want me to start at the very beginning? Like, okay, I can do that. From a baby. Yes. From a baby. We need like the whole story. I'm just kidding. Okay. No problem. Just whatever background you feel comfortable with. Okay. Yeah, actually, it started very early. Like my interest in computers, 3D graphics started very early. I think I have a fascination for computers that's pretty much stemming from my dad. He's like this inventor-like person. And I was surrounded by computers already from a very early age on. and it was naturally that I did websites for example for my local skateboard community and it was also the time when I got into 3D graphics and I remember I did a 3D postcard for my school I thought that was pretty cool because it was basically handed to everybody I just recently filed it on an old hard drive and it pretty ridiculous It looks very sad, actually. But you're so proud of those first things that you do. And was the skateboarding website, was that MySpace? Or was it before MySpace? That was its own website. It was not a – Oh, wow. You did like your own – rolled your own thing. I wouldn't claim it completely for me. I think it's probably my dad's thing. I know so many web developers with a background that say like, oh, I did a band on MySpace and that's how I got my start in web development because they started playing with like the BB code or whatever it was back at that time. Yeah. It could be a new generation. Yeah, but if I remember correctly, MySpace used to provide you with tools to customize it pretty much whatever way you wanted, right? Yeah, you could add customizations to it, but I think a lot of it was in the code. So you needed to know some like HTML. And I think it was BB code was like what it used. And I don't even remember if that was like a thing on top of HTML or what that was. But that's an aside. I was just like, oh, a website you built back in the day. That sounds like so many stories I've heard. Yeah, no, actually it was its own website. I think we were called City Light Skateboarding, if I remember correctly. But the website is not around anymore. Don't try to look it up. But there was also actually 3D for the web, but it was based on Flash back then. And I didn't really commit to Flash. And I'm glad I didn't. Yeah. And then I studied graphic design and product design. but I didn't really see a career in like the overlap of development and design. And then I started to work for a company or like a design studio called Studio Monika in Amsterdam. And they do all kinds of projects between art and design. And these projects were always dealing with collaboration and participation and how the web is transforming from this Wild West thing where everybody can do what they want to something that it is now. Basically, it's owned by large companies and it has social effects. Interesting. So these projects were dealing with that and we used a lot of 3D on the web And that was actually 3 I mean everybody kind of knows 3JS right It like if you want to do something with 3D on the web it either 3JS And I think Babylon.js is a little bit younger, but mostly 3JS. And I learned a lot in that time. Like the time at StudioMonica was basically where things kicked off for me. And I also saw that all of a sudden, my perspective changed. You know, you can be a designer and a developer, and maybe also mainly a developer and a little bit of a designer. And yeah, now I'm a freelance developer. I'm working on pretty much all kinds of projects, be it websites, apps, mostly websites. Do a lot of the projects that you do for freelance include the 3D side? And is that why you built this library? Yeah. So I built Threlt because I was making or I was developing a project for a client of mine. And the design was made by Adeline Moyar. She's like a fantastic Swiss graphic designer. And she had a very strong opinion. Like she does these fancy 3D websites, you know, but she has a very strong opinion on WebGL. She didn't want WebGL because she thought that images don't look crisp enough. And I kind of agree. By default, the browser is doing that very well. If you use CSS 3D transforms, all the images, they just look sharp and it just looks good. I then looked into libraries and solutions that could help me to build this website completely 3D, but without WebGL, but with everything CSS 3D transformed. And I didn't really find anything. So I also didn't commit to any JavaScript front-end framework yet. At StudioMonica, we used mainly React, a little bit of Vue, because I introduced Vue, Vue.js. I couldn't handle React in a way. um and but i i gave i gave solid a benchmark and svelte and react and view and because i knew react free fiber back then and i knew of all the limitations it has in terms of using properties to actually drive your scene it something that they do not recommend doing and i always thought It not really declarative if you then have to get a reference to the object and then manually do all your updates If you can use properties on your components, it just feels better in a way. And of course, this is a limitation of React and not really React 3 Fiber. But yeah, I did these benchmarks to solid and Svelte. And yeah, I just found out that, yeah, Vue.js, of course, they are wrapping everything in proxy objects. And it's quite slow. It cannot handle lots of components, updating properties 60 times a second or even more. That's just not happening. And React also, it's just not fast enough. And Svelte and Solid, they were solid in terms of performance. No pun intended or pun intended. I was curious how the differences are because they're saying like some of the benchmarks for solages for websites are coming out a little bit faster than Svelte. So I was wondering like how you're… I think I don't… I had to pull up the numbers. I don't even know if I have the numbers. But they were probably… were they similar? Like pretty close, but just more… Svelte was more declarative for you? Is that what you felt swayed it? Coming from React and not liking the syntax and with like only a marginal performance difference, it was kind of a no-brainer to go for Svelte instead of… Solid still feels a little like React because of how it uses the signals and updating. Yeah, but somehow that was kind of natural that I then leaned towards Svelte. And it actually was my first biggest project. And then I started to just whip up some components to be able to use the 3.js CSS 3D renderer. So 3.js comes with not only a WebGL renderer, but also a CSS 3D renderer to be able to render HTML elements transformed via CSS 3D transforms into something, you know, like any scene that you can basically think of. But with HTML elements, so it's everything we wanted. But at some point, we actually hit performance problems, not because of Svelte, just because the DOM cannot handle that many transform updates. I was wondering about that, if it's better to do the CSS transforms, I guess.

 At some point, it hits like a breaking point, right? Yeah. Yeah. And pretty fast, actually. I was surprised. And yeah, then we went for WebGL again. So it was WebGL again. But I already had this wonderful setup. You know, I already had these components. They were ready to accept properties. I was really confident that it's kind of a nice development workflow. So you just assign properties instead of working on the objects themselves. And it felt so nice. I didn't want to drop it. And yeah, that's basically where Threlt started. Awesome. How long ago did you start working on this felt part? So Threlt. That's a good question. It was last year. I remember that I started working on this website. There was no Threlt yet. There was no public library or anything to basically be able to release. But I remember that Rich published Svelte Cubed. And I felt like, ah, damn it. Like you missed your opportunity. Yeah, a little bit. But I also tried that out and it had some limitations I was not very happy about. But also, I'm a big fan of TypeScript. And Sveltecube is completely JavaScript. And it doesn't provide, I think, good type experience. So that was something I just liked about Threlt, actually working on Threlt, working with Threlt. Before we continue with the episode, here's a word from our sponsor, Vercel. Vercel is the platform for front-end developers, providing the speed and reliability innovators need to create at the moment of inspiration. Founded by the creators of Next.js, Vercel has zero configuration support for 35 plus front end frameworks, including SvelteKit. We enable the world's largest brands like Under Armour, eBay, and Nintendo to iterate faster and create quality software. Try out Vercel today to experience the easiest way to use Svelte. All right. So Threl had a big release recently. It sounds like you've kind of moved pretty fast if you just started last year. and now we are at Threault 5.0. Is that right? 5.0.2, I guess. Yeah. Just moving right along Yeah there were some bugs I mean maybe we also have to explain what Threault is in a way Yeah absolutely And the core concepts Yeah I didn really prepare for that I didn't really prepare for anything, but let's see how that turns out. We didn't have it in your head. Okay. So Threault is a component library and as of recent, also a renderer, which enables you to declaratively composite 3.js scenes. So 3.js is this 3D library that everybody uses to make 3D on the web. I think I have to frame that differently. It's really hard. I also don't like the term declarative. It's just jargon. I think that makes it easier to read. So it's like a higher level of code. So you're writing something that makes it easier to read, but it does some things under the hood for you that you don't have to do, boilerplate stuff. Yeah, that. And also we hook into Svelte's lifecycle methods to add and remove objects from the scene graph and stuff like that. So there are actually, I mean, declarative is not, it's not, it's not wrong. It's just overused. I just recently saw that AppRite, I don't know if you know that, they are also using the word declaratively everywhere. And I'm like, what? What does that have to do with it? Anyway, yeah. They also just released their new console built in SvelteKit. Ah, yeah. Yeah. I didn't use it yet. Like AppRite in general. Is it good? So I do another podcast and my co-host on that works for AppRite. So I've used it alongside him, like on a couple of projects, but right now they don't have a cloud offering. So you have to have Docker installed and you have to host your own database, but they are coming out with that soon. So I think I will use it more once. I am not a backend developer. I don't want Docker on my computer. So I have avoided using it personally, but I've used it through his stuff. Yeah. By the way, what you said was exactly what you have on the website, which is perfectly fine. Yeah, but what we have on the website, I'm not really happy with that too. Okay, yeah, I think that's something worth talking about. Yeah so Thwellt is a component library and a renderer which makes it as easy as possible to get started with 3 in Svelte It enables you to write declarative components instead of imperative 3.js code that can get messy and spaghetti-ish. I mean... I think that sounds perfect. Yeah. That sounds exactly like what it is just from my limited experience using it over the weekend. It allows you to write that 3GS code in an easier manner. Yeah. And so what might we use Threault for? Is this going to be a game? What might we want to build Threault with? I think I just answered that question once on Reddit. I just tried to look it up, but I'm not that fast. So, yeah, obviously you can do all kinds of eye candy things with it. So if you think about the GitHub landing page, for example, if you're not logged in, you see this globe with live data from where commits are happening and pull requests are coming in and stuff like that. Super good example. But it's only like quotation marks, only eye candy. Lots of companies use it for product configurators. For example, I'm not sure if that is a thing in the States, But we have this furniture manufacturer, Tulko. They are using 3D a lot where you can configure your furniture and they just do it however you configure it. Yeah, there are like lots of applications. You just have to commit to 3D. Would you be able to build a game or something with it in Svelte? I know like React and I believe like React 3 Fiber and some of those libraries are used to create some games. Yeah, you totally are. I'm not sure if it makes sense, though. I mean, I did for Threalt V5. I released a little. So Threalt V5 released a lot of breaking changes, not yet breaking, but breaking in the future breaking. and to soothe everyone's opinion. I made like a little game for that. So you can play and just check out how Threault V5 is superior to V4. And that worked actually quite well. So I think it a good choice if you want to make a game It does not come with the usual batteries included in game engines So it does not have, I mean, it's not that big of a deal mostly, but it does not have like a complete audio solution or it does not have an input manager. There are, however, ways of doing that, especially with Svelte. It's not that hard to whip that up. You can also just look into that game's source code and copy stuff out however you want. There's some input management and some audio management involved. Okay, yeah. Can you expand a little bit? We talked about Threlt 5.0 being released and that some of these breaking changes that were made actually made the performance better. Can you talk about some of the changes that were made and what makes it better, I guess? So before version 5, Threlt was a wrapper around existing or just around 3.js objects. So Svelte would have an export called mesh, which is a component. And if you drop that into your scene graph or into your Svelte component, in that case, then it would instantiate a three mesh class, make a new instance from that. And you would be able to apply a set of predefined properties on that mesh. And you can already see where the bottleneck is because 3.js is a large, large, large library. It comes with hundreds of things. And wrapping every single export is a very tedious, time-consuming process. And that's why I started looking into alternatives than wrapping stuff. And I developed a component, a single component, which does nothing else than accepting any property and applying what you pass to it to an object. And that can be, for example, a 3.js object. Actually, this component is called 3 and it accepts

 any JavaScript object. You don't have to give it like a class definition, a 3JS class definition. It can work with anything. It just so happens that it's just convenient to work on 3JS objects. And there's a certain rule set you have to oblige, not oblige, obey. Yeah, sorry. There's a certain rules that you have to obey while providing the properties to this three component. For example, let's stick with the example of a mesh. A mesh is a visual representation of a geometry and a surface. And that surface is a material. So you provide a geometry, for example, a sphere and a material, for example, a mesh standard material. to a mesh and then you get like a shiny ball, for example. So if you now want to change the position of the mesh, the world position where it's at, you cannot assign a new vector to this property position because it's read-only by design of 3.js. So we had to find or I had to find a workaround for that and basically React Free Fiber, The React equivalent of Thwelt already found that, and I used it because they obviously put a lot of thought already in React 3 Fiber. It's actually a really good library. And what they do is that they check for certain other properties on, for example, this position property. In this case, the set property, and check if the set is a function. and if set is a function, it accepts an array of values and stuff like that. So there's a very small rule set, for example. Yeah, I don't know. There's a very small rule set which you have to obey and then you can basically use pretty much every 3.js export, be it from the standard namespace 3 or from this infamous examples folder And yeah you good to go Yeah So it sounds like you made some tweaks that opened up your options a lot more So you have more capabilities in it now than you used to but you also made sort of a migration path or at least deprecated 4.0 for the time being where it's not going to break people's current projects, right? They have time to migrate. They have time to migrate. Yeah. So the two versions are completely compatible with each other. So V4 components still work for V5 also together. You can nest a V4 component in a V5 component, for example. It's not a problem. It's not a big deal. At some point, some things will be removed from V5 core. So Thread is also split up into, as of right now, four packages. It will be five in about some days. And there's something really nice coming up, actually. And yeah, so there's Core, which is this whole rendering thing. Rendering, which used to be basically 3.js classes as Svelte components. and there are some components in there which will eventually move from core to extras to another package extras at some point in the future. So I'm not really sure. Let's say months, I guess, something like that. So what are, you mentioned four packages right now, but there's five. So what are the other three packages? I know there's the physics engine throughout Slash Rapier. Yeah, yeah. So in total, it's four packages. It's core, which used to be the main 3.js classes as Svelte components. So mesh, cameras, group, object 3D, stuff like that. Things you would use all the time. that is in core, that used to be in core. Like it is still in core, but it will move. And then there's extras. And extras provides useful abstractions on top of these core components So for example loading a GLTF file that you would export from Blender is kind of a tedious process in vanilla 3 You have to instantiate a loader and you have to load the model and then you have to somehow get that into the scene graph and then it's not typed. And yeah, it's just a little bit more work than just importing the GLTF component from Threault Extras and providing a URL. And it just deals with all the complexities that come with it. So you can create in Blender a 3D object and then import that with the Threault package. Yeah, so that's kind of the standard way of doing things. You model things in Blender or any 3D software. I think all the major 3D softwares now support exporting GLTF. Because before GLTF, that was pretty different. I think pretty much every 3D software now supports exporting GLTF. Because before that, yeah, you would have to use OBJ, but they were very limited in terms of compatibility when it comes to material properties and cameras and how it would be translated into what you then see in the browser. Because, for example, some applications use, when you define the field of view of a camera, for example, some applications use the vertical field of view and some use the horizontal field of view. And GLTF just makes that process of exporting whole scenes, streamlines. It's pretty well, actually. It does a really good job. Awesome. And Willow mentioned the physics renderer. Can you talk about what rendering engine that it uses and how anything under the hood works? Under the hood of the physics engine, yeah. That will be complicated. I just have to go and get a physics degree then, and I'm back in 10 years. the rapier engine I think is what I was getting at so Thread is using the rapier engine it kind of a new physics engine on the web I think it what the 3D community or like the physics on the web community really waited for because while there were alternatives MO.js, Canon.js, they always felt like not web first, but something else first and kind of converted to web in a way that just felt a little bit weird. And so now Rapier is around, and Rapier is incredibly fast. It's on par with NVIDIA's PhysX library, at least when it comes to CPU performance. And it's not only fast, it also grows in terms of feature set. it provides the basics in terms of shapes, but also in joints. So you can hook things together and let them physically interact. And it's just great fun to do physics-based projects. Is this also the same engine that React 3Fiber and other 3D libraries use? So React 3Fiber has a Rapier package. but for React Refiber I think there are more than one physics library you can use if I'm not mistaken I think they also offer other packages as well I just have to say to whoever's listening obviously this is an audio podcast and it's a little bit hard to follow along but just go on to Thrill.xyz on the website and the Rapier demos are really impressive I don't know how long you spent working on these, but they show the possibilities for sure. Yeah, thanks. Not that long, actually. Yeah, you can enable physics in a threat scene really quickly, actually. You just have to drop in this world component. It provides this rapier world where gravity is applied to physics objects and it uses the standard Thwellt frame loop to update everything physics based in this world. And there are colliders and rigid bodies. These are the main building blocks of physical objects and then you nest a mesh, for example, in a

 rigid body and in a collider because a collider has to have a rigid body has to have a collider and then this collider nests, gets the children, gets, gets, yeah. Anyway, it's really easy actually. Just look at the examples. It's, yeah. Yeah. You know, you call throughout the component library. I think this is where the power starts to shine through. I'm not sure why, you know, why the analogy of component library kind of makes sense. but I think once you look at the code, maybe it's just more declarative. What's your discomfort with declarative? What's wrong with declarative? I mean, looking at the code, it's very short. Maybe that's the unpopular opinion today. No, that is not the unpopular. I have a better unpopular. I mean, declarative is not unpopular. Everybody likes to use that word, so it's probably not unpopular. It's unpopular to say that you don't like it, which is what you're saying. I don't particularly like the overuse of that word. No, I think you're completely right. It's declarative. But in a way, I'd like to think more in terms of composition than declaration. Not really recently, but I recently fell in love with these slot props. Nobody really uses them. I don't know why. Not nobody, but I didn't really see it out in the wild a lot. Because you have to nest objects a lot, especially in this third V5 syntax, that you can make use of this slot prop syntax quite a lot. And it just feels so natural. Yeah, it feels really good. So I like to think in terms of composition rather than declaration. Right, exactly. You use them because you have a component library, right? And you like composition. That's exactly the situation where slots become necessary. And maybe people coming over from React where React doesn't have slots because it uses GSX, that might be more of an alien concept. I kind of think of slots as like a hack or just because you can't pass a component in as a prop, you have to use a slot, basically. Aren't they the same as children in Reacts though? They are named children So like Reacts is very loosey right You can pass in data you can pass in components Whereas you can pass in a function right That's render props in React. But with templating languages, like both Vue and Svelte, because the templating languages insist on HTML and single file components, you cannot just pass in, you know, just like some inline component that you declare somewhere else because there is no other component. in a single file component. It's only the one. I got you. Yeah. But that also is what makes React really powerful in terms of what you can do with it. For example, this React 3 Fiber thing, it's absolutely crazy. They use a feature of React that is called, that is a custom renderer. So that is also, as far as I know, the foundation of React Native in a way. So you can not only use the DOM to render React components, but also, and in this case, it's JavaScript that adds and removes components to and from the scene graph of 3.js. So React 3.5 is using a custom renderer to do that. And we are using just like a regular component. Yeah. And a preprocessor as of latest, which is really cool. Very cool. Looks like Brittany is dealing with some family stuff. Yeah, sorry. Is there anything that we missed with Threl before we move over to our unpopular opinions? I think the preprocessor, we could talk about that. I don't know. It also comes with, or V5 also comes with a preprocessor now. And this preprocessor just makes it really easy to work with this V5 syntax because you don't have to import anything. You don't have to import anything from 3.js. You just import one component from Threault Core. Jesus. And it deals with importing the 3.js modules or exports and hooks everything up for you. Okay, so kind of a convenience thing, but I mean, it looks concise and nice. looks a little bit weird, but I think it's okay. Will it mix well with other preprocessors I think it does right what do you mean like some kind of c you recommend some sequence sequential pre so i you know i've never i'm not used to any other kind of swap pre-processer apart from the auto pre-processed the one that everyone uses by default um so this is a new pre-processer that i haven't seen before um so you're recommending this kind of like sequence type thing i don't know it's pretty cool. Yeah. So the Thread preprocessor, it makes use of Svelte Walk. And Svelte Walk is an AST walker that walks through the AST of your Svelte component. And to be able to walk through that, it needs to be like a Svelte component and not a TypeScript Svelte component. So you have to run all the preprocessing that would transform your TypeScript or SCSS or whatever you want to use. You have to run that beforehand so that the thread preprocessor can use that Svelte walk to transform your component. It's not only a convenience thing, it's also kind of an overview thing. So if you look through the source code of that arcade game, you see all of these same components. As I said before, it's just one component that does basically all the job, like all the hard work. And it just gets very messy. You always see this 3, 3, 3, 3, 3 component all over the place. And you can get lost in like the markup. And yeah, we had like a big discussion about that actually on the GitHub. pull request. And we had some alternatives, but ultimately we came up with this solution that also provides type safety. And that was kind of a big deal. So you just import one component and yeah, it also provides type safety. And I think that's kind of a neat thing. Awesome. Indeed, indeed. I think that's time for us to move on to our unpopular opinions. I do not have one this week, and I've been waiting patiently to hear Grisha's because he's been saving it, I feel like this whole time for us Yeah I not really sure if I the only one but every time I worked with web components I a little bit disappointed Like this whole Shadow DOM thing it doesn really feel nice You know, you cannot change any CSS properties of anything. And I know that it's kind of also that this is kind of what they were designing. but in terms of type safety of properties it just doesn't feel like i want to use it that much it's maybe becoming a little less popular than it used to be but that opinion is one i feel like i i've felt for a very long time i yeah i don't think that the api is great okay yeah i think uh rich harris has a famous blog post about why he doesn't use web components where people constantly get mad at him about it. I can imagine. For me, the primary thing is the inability to server-side render them. They essentially only work in the browser. Oh, I didn't know that. Yeah. So the web components people will say, well, then we have all these frameworks that help you preprocess them. And so if you're using a framework, then, I mean, you could choose between Svelte or... Yeah, like, what's the point of using the... Yeah, exactly. Right? More declarative code. It's supposed to be built into the platform, and just the platform doesn't support that sort of use case. And unfortunately, it's pretty necessary if you're going to write, programmatically generate pages, for example. Yeah. But there are libraries or frameworks that can render web components on the server. Svelte? Oh, well, Svelte can compile out to web components, but I don't know about on the server. Yeah, we say that, but I bet it hasn't really been tested. We say that. I actually wanted to export because that first project that I did with Threault, it had this really nice feature. I can show it to you also. It's a fly that is on the screen all the time, and it follows your cursor, and it makes sound, and it's really annoying. And I want to publish that as a web component that you can just drop into your website, and you have a fly that is following your cursor.

 3D fly. Super annoying. I was going to say that sounds really awful. How about you, Willow? Any unpopular opinions today? I don't have any, but the fly thing sounds like something we should probably add to the Svelte Docs. Along with Dart Mode. I saw we're finally in Dart Mode. I think that is an unpopular opinion, to be honest. I got nothing either. fresh out we have picks i know let's let's move on to picks because both of us have picks you want to go first fix oh um well i just came from playing uh this game with my sister called lovers in a dangerous space time which is a fantastic title and basically you're traveling around the universe and a spaceship it's a it's a co-op game you're defending yourself from aliens and you're saving space bunnies to save the universe with the power of love. That's as much as I know about it. It sounds fantastic. I'm going to have to buy a Switch for Christmas now so my kids and I can play this. We love co-op games. Actually, it's also available on Steam, so you don't have to have a Switch. I just happen to be using a Switch right now. How would you play Steam? Can you get that on a PS5 as an app? Maybe. I don't know. I don't know. I'm a fan of co-op games. It's like a Switch. That's true. But the point is co-op, right? So you need multiple controllers and a shared screen. Yeah. And my only report would be that there's quite a few levels to this thing. And we got stuck on level two, and it was so hard. But we took a lot of planning, and we finally beat it after two hours. It's actually pretty short. Each round is like 10 to 15 minutes. It's just like the controls and the planning needed is hard. And you need to collaborate. You can't play this by yourself. So I just like that for any family games because then you can yell at each other. That sounds awesome. Well, my pick is yesterday. Yesterday, as of recording day, I did a stream with Uniform's Tim Binnicks. And it's called Unpack the Stack. And we went over the JAMstack survey results that were done at JAMstack Conf and talked a little bit about how some frameworks were declining Some are still in the upper part where we have higher satisfaction and growth ratings And one of those is spell kit. So we unpacked spell kit and kind of what it's about, what it gives you provides out of the box for you and went through some stuff. So it was a fun time. Cool. Grisha, did you come up with a pick? Oh yeah. Yeah. I did. Speaking of Sveltec, we're keeping a close watch on the issues now on the road back. We're doing a countdown, right? Like there's five issues left today. It's a count up because I started with five and then I went to six. And then I went to six. But no pressure. I think it's just fun and games until it actually lands. Yes. Yeah. actually I started getting into Svelte because I was so disappointed by the communication of the Nuxt team and that was part of what we talked about yesterday is that uh so Vue 3 came out and then the Nuxt 3 was not supported for a very long time so there was no way to actually create like a big application with Vue that was using the latest and greatest Vue 3 yeah exactly I was really on the Nuxt team for a long time, and I thought it still is a pretty good piece of technology. I still use it in production, Nuxt 2, for some clients. But yeah, their communication for Nuxt 3 was pretty horrible, at least in the beginning. I think they catched up at some point. And I think they were realizing that people were just like, when is it coming? When is it coming? Tell us. They did. I think a couple months ago it finally released NUX3 and it's like officially supported and everything now. Part of the reason like the survey results were showing that Vue and NUX were in the danger zone is what Laurie called it in the survey results this year. where they didn't stop growing, but the growth rate between the previous year and this year was lower. So they're in that danger zone of falling off. And it made Evan you pretty mad. You're still growing, but growing less. That's a problem. Yes, exactly. I think you know so first of all I do think that it an unhealthy attitude right Like Vue for what it worth has always been like an independent community that is you know was felt now with Rich working for Vercel and React being React. Like, you know, Vue has always been sort of the standout in terms of independence. I just like, I've heard inklings of this dissatisfaction. And I've seen people in the Vue community quit Vue over this. And it seems very alarming. And one thing I observe is Vue, when they did the big two to three switch, what you just materialized to me was they had a coordinated switch of the entire ecosystem. right uh the state management uh tool like the i i don't like there's there's a whole long list of like the stuff that uh view switch from two to three i just realized that nux was not included in that list yeah so um and it wasn't obvious to me i i was i was like kind of fairly close like you know i'm friends with evan but like i i didn't know this until until you said so today part were you talking about was like the unhealthy attitude like of them being in the danger zone I didn't like that phrasing on it. It's unhealthy to say like you're in danger if you do not grow faster than you did last year. That is very VC type thinking. Yes, I didn't really love that either. And I think that they are still growing. There are like Evan made a great point on Twitter. There's a good Twitter thread about this. Maybe I should find for the show notes on. There were only like 6,800 respondents and it's very geolocated. And I think a lot of Vue developers are in China where we don't have survey results from. So there are some stipulations to that data, too. I think it needs to be taken with a grain of salt. Well, if you want to be heard, the State of JS survey is on right now. That's another big survey. And we're trying to get people to show up, regardless of what framework you like. And fill in Svelte Radio for the podcast. Yeah, right. But you must like Svelte Radio. You must add Svelte Radio. You don't use Svelte, it's okay, but you can listen to Svelte Radio. Did you have any picks? Yeah, I just watched Wednesday on Netflix. Oh, that is so your vibe. The Addams Family Yeah it was very good Oh was it good Yeah I heard mixed reviews enjoyed it yeah i let just let just put it this way i started it last night and it eight hours worth of content and you're done oh my gosh i thought it was a movie and you were like oh i watched the movie last night no um i also saw matilda the musical the new version in cinema and that was very good oh that sounds good so what's wednesday is it kind of a guilty pleasure series or uh it's It's a series about, I don't know if you know, the Addams family. It's about Wednesday Addams. Ah, okay, okay, okay. The gothman, little girl. Yeah, played by Jenna Ortega, who was, I love another Netflix series called You, which is about a serial killer. And she played the little sister of a side character. And to see her grow up into a leading character like this and to be so darkly humorous, I just, I really loved that portrayal of her. yeah my whole family's just been wednesday as well it's great yeah talking about growing up i just started with stranger things series four so season four oh the kids are big that's some serious growing up like uh wow i was i was surprised it's pretty good yeah yeah yeah but that's not my that's the good stuff yeah all right anything else before we're all set yeah i mean i still i I also have a pic now. Oh, I completely skipped over you. I'm so sorry. Yeah, it's nothing special. It's slot props, actually. So if you don't know what slot props are, get into slot props. They will change the way how you write your slot components. At least they did for me. Super nice. Yeah. Awesome. Well, I have one follow-up question just about 3D and 3JS and all that. For what it's worth, I'm extremely impressed by your docs. You know, there's most of the APIs have like an animation or like a little REPL where you can see the code and you can see stuff live. That's really good because I don't have the imagination. Like I'm not a digital artist, right? Like a lot of people, when they try this stuff out, you know, I move rectangles on the screen. And then to go from rectangles on the screen to 3D, it's a very big step. Basically, what you have here is really good for copy paste. I really love like there's even like a vehicle controller demo. What else would you learn? What else would you recommend for people converting from 2D to 3D?

 like what resources converting from 2d to 3d basically getting getting into 3d for the first time right like whether or not using thrills whether you're using 3js like uh there's a lot of concepts to learn yeah um and like what should people build as their first thing you know maybe that's a that's a that's a fun question or what's a what's a what's a book or uh a course that you recommend um i cannot really recommend books i didn't use any books to to learn that um but i mean if you're if you're looking for inspiration then the 3js page is like a great source of inspiration the the projects that they show there that are all done with 3js um are pretty good by the way there's also like a studio monica project there and um if you are looking into just starting out with 3d i would highly recommend getting into blender and working with blender because uh 3js was written or um yeah it was created with um softwares like these in mind i mean webgl by itself they webgl by itself provides all the means to um Yeah. Make 3D on the browser possible in the, in, in the web possible, but it's just, it's just 200 lines of code to, to draw a single triangle. And there are no concepts like a camera or a mesh or something like that It it very very low level and so 3js was created with this compatibility of 3d software and the stuff that you actually that actually ends up in the in your code to run 3d on the browser with that compatibility in mind also with like the mindset compatibility so you have things like a perspective camera in 3js things like an orthographic camera a mesh certain types of geometries, animation tracks, nonlinear animations, bones to deform character movements and stuff like that. So getting into Blender is definitely worth it if you want to get into 3D on the web. I've heard really good things about Blender. I've seen some cool things. Yeah, it's incredible. It's absolutely amazing what they do. And it's open source. Especially the progress of the last three, four years. Amazing. The intimidating thing for me is, you know, everyone does the donut tutorial for Blender and there's like 30 hours worth of donut tutorials before you get... Make a donut then. So like actually do something else besides a donut. That's true. Yeah. Well, thank you so much, Grisha. Grisha, I keep saying it. Like, I don't know if I'm saying it right or wrong. I'm so sorry. but thank you so much for coming on and explaining Thrilt to us and everybody go out check out thrilt.xyz try it out and see what you can build with it yeah thanks for having me wonderful hey it's Kavir if you like the show please drop a review on your favorite podcast player it would help out a lot thanks