 Awesome, there we go. Hello everyone, my name is Daniels and I come from this wonderful company called Spotogo. Yes, we do use Sentry a lot. It's really nice for like three or four different languages so i think it's really quite flexible i can recommend uh and today i'm speaking here for the first time so i want to tell you about svaldkit and pwas and like an actual practical project that i did with it so not just like small hobby stuff with one user so a little bit about me um i did a lot of things so i mostly do web development now like i guess most of you here um i also have some experience in design and some project management stuff and on the daily i work with multiple languages like you see here and in my free time i go to a lot of conventions and and travel a lot and do photography stuff. So it's pretty natural that I want to build a website or something like that and show my work. And I don't want to pay for Squarespace. So that is way more fun when you can build this yourself, right? And yeah, a bit more about my like technical background. So initially I started off as a backend developer. back-end developers, so I didn't really dive really deep into the front-end stack beyond really simple, you know, HTML, CSS, JavaScript. I tried React for a few small projects, but nothing on a really massive scale or anything like that. But I did have to learn TypeScript eventually, against my will. And I first encountered SvelteKit and Svelte when SvelteKit was nearing 1.0. And that's where I decided that I want to actually invest time into it because it became pretty stable and mature. And since we already started talking about why we chose Svelte and SvelteKit is because, as I told you, I come from a very back-end focus background. And Svelte had a really nice learning curve, like at least for me, because you didn't have to learn JSX, even though it's fine. The reactivity was way easier to understand. You didn't have to learn a completely new markup language like you need to do usually with other frameworks and other languages. Take for example, I don't know, Go templates or the Python ginger templating thing, or ERB in Ruby or Hamel, God forbid. And in Svelte you really just need to know HTML You just need to know CSS and you need to know JavaScript or TypeScript it's up to you. And the TypeScript integration, if you use it, is also really nice. So I'll talk about that a bit later. So I'll give you a bit of background about the project I'm going to talk to you about today. I'll need to set up a lot of context. So I told you I go to a lot of conventions, mostly anime conventions during the year. And this year I went to Dokomi. It's Germany's largest anime in Japan expo. This year it was the biggest it's ever been. And this year I was helping out with our own booth there. And yeah, a bit more about the convention. It's pretty old. It's been going on for about a decade and it's largely a very community convention. So it started off with like 10 people that gathered in the park one day, and then it became this 100,000 person thing. And yeah, this is our booth, which was completely a fan-based project. So we raised the money ourselves. We gathered all the stuff you see here from many different people, even outside of Europe. so it was a completely crowdsourced thing based on volunteers. And to tell you a bit more, like what the hell is Hololive? In a very short nutshell, it's a virtual YouTuber agency. So again, I need to explain what is a YouTuber. A YouTuber is just a virtual YouTuber that streams the game on Twitch or YouTube or whatever. And Halllife is just one of the many agencies that exist now that have a lot of these entertainers under their blankets and management. And as you could probably tell, if I'm part of a Halllife fan booth, I probably belong to this fandom. I guess that's pretty obvious. And one of the ideas for this year that we want to do is to do a stamp rally. So what is a stamp rally? So usually at each convention like this, there is an artist alley where people can go and sell their art or self-made merchandise. And people go there to support their artists that they like and also buy something nice. and usually they come together and form a stamp rally. So people need to go to a certain set of artists and buy something from them or just visit them and take a photo and collect all of the stamps and then they get some kind of prize, right? Very simple. And last year we actually did something like this, but on paper. So this year I thought, you know, it's 2023. three uh we have you know this amazing technology let's try and make it digital right because when things are digital you have way more flexibility you can do way more interesting stuff and we had a few requirements so first of all offline first uh conventions you know they under a huge miller roof which is basically like a giant faraday cage so uh you can really rely on there being any sort of network uh it has to be fast and lightweight because people have different phones they won't have the latest iphone 15. they might have some ancient android 5 device so you need to account for that as well and if you're building something like this you also want a good developer experience right because someone has to actually work on this and build this and they also need to be able to do things very very quickly and let's see if so offline uh pwa is built exactly for these kind of circumstances because it's a web app that works completely offline if you wanted to uh fast and lightweights svelte exactly right up our alley and developer experience also which felt was really great uh it's met that requirement as well and how would this digital stamp rally actually work so uh first you open the app and you do some kind of basic registration right uh then the person participating in the rally needs to actually find the participants so in our case they have let's say eight or ten artists that they need to visit and they need to to find them at the convention. Then they need to scan some kind of QR codes. QR codes, they're super universal. It's the easiest way to really do some kind of digital collection thing. And in the end, they need to get a prize, right? Very simple. And yeah, on the left was actually my inspiration. So last year I went to Anime NYC in New York and they also had like a stamp rally thing in their official app. But as you can see, it's like super, super basic. It just had like five stamps and you had to scan like five QR codes in a few different places at the convention. So it was really, really basic, but the idea was kind of born there. And so how do we actually go around collecting these stamps? It's really quite simple. You want to obviously make sure people don't cheat easily. Then that's not really fun. So you can't really just bake in the stamp codes that you expect into the app because then people can just data mine the app. And especially if you have it on GitHub, you can just open the source code and see like, oh, I expect these codes. I just need to generate my own QR code, scan it, and boom, I'm done. But you can do something extremely simple. You can just create your QR code tokens. You can run them through a hashing function You can put them in the app And then when someone scans your stamp they just do a really basic hash check right It not rocket science And yeah, the features that I wanted to do was obviously make this QR scanner work. That was a bit harder than I thought, because again, you need to deal with many, many different devices. You want to find out information about each vendor or artist that's participating in the rally. And I also thought, hmm, since we have an app, why not add real-time events? Like what sort of real-time events? So let's say someone finds a stamp and they scan it. It would be cool if everyone else who's participating in the stamp rally also sees that someone found a stamp in real-time. Then I thought, you know, since we're adding like these online features, let's make a leaderboard, you know. Then I thought, okay, if they just complete the stamp rally and get their prize, that's kind of boring. Let's also add like a slot game in the end. So don't do what I did. Don't do feature creep. But I had a few spare days to do this. So I thought, you know, why not? and this is what i ended up with so uh this is how the stamp sheet actually looks like so i want to make it look like it's actually made kind of out of paper if that makes sense and you can press on any of the stamps and you can see where to find the artist uh this is the bonus game that i made So this also has another cool feature I added where people can choose their own nickname, but if they don't choose one, they get a randomly generated one. And how does it generate the random nickname? It actually takes a random adjective and the name of the, what's it called, like the fan name of a person who's a fan of a specific streamer. And then you combine them together and you get like, like a clean Takodachi or like a sad owl or something like that. And I added a feature where people get a random member and then they can explore their channel and see some clips from their channel. So it's a good way for people to actually explore different streamers that they might not be familiar with. And yeah, we got the leaderboard working just in time. there is like a really funny bug that happened but I'll tell you later and that's like what our printouts looked like that we handed out to the artists themselves and that's like the basic Thank you.