 Hi, I'm Dominik and I'm going to show you a suite tool to develop Svelte applications with hot module reloading so fast you hardly notice them happening. In fact, they already happened. Right here in my browser, the introduction animation has been created with 43 different hot module updates to a page served by the Vite dev server. Suite is a Vite plugin and a CLI to help you set it up really quickly. And I'm going to show you how in a second. Just stay with me. The Suite CLI can be used with MPX and has a help command to show you how to use it. The main commands are create, dev and build. Let's check out Suite Create first. It's really simple. You simply type suite, create project name, and it's going to start to create a project for you. There are several options. You can choose different templates, enable TypeScript, or select a different package manager if you prefer it. In the background, this runs npm install after it fetched the template from GitHub. The default minimal template doesn't contain much, but it's all we need to get started. Let's go check it out. So let's change into the hello summit directory and check what's inside. As you can see, the minimal template is that, minimal. It has an entry point, a source directory and all the packages already installed. So we can start using the dev server right away. The command for that is sweet dev. It comes with a few options, but you don't need many of them. The most prominent ones are debug and open, which can be used for additional output and for immediately opening a browser once you start the dev server So let start the server As you can see it starts really fast and opens the browser immediately The dev server keeps running while I switch to apps 12 in VS Code to show you how hot module reloading works. Our minimal app is pretty simple. Let's give it a more appropriate headline. Keep an eye out on the right to see the update happening. Saw that? Let's have a look again. Save. It doesn't take long, does it? And it also does not reload the whole page. You can also change CSS of course, or the template itself. I don't know about you, but that white background is a little bit annoying, don't you think? Let's see if we can do something about that too. For that, we create a new file and name it index.css. In that file, we define a style for body. Black background and our color, of course, orange-red. Lovely. Now this file hasn't been imported yet, so it doesn't show up in our application. But we can simply import it in the index.js. And now our background is black just like that There hasn been any Svelte component involved in that reload though so let create a new Svelte component next And add some content too. Now we can import this component like any other Svelte component and add it to our component. And again, once we hit save, it immediately shows up in the browser. And when we update the content, this update also immediately shows up in the browser. And that's hot module reloading for Svelte applications. Back in the terminal, the dev server has dutifully logged how it changed the files along the way. Let's stop it for now and check out the last command suite has to offer, suite build. Like create and dev, build has a few options. Most of these are passed to wheatbuild and none of them are required. So let's use wheatbuild to build ourselves a self-contained single-page application. And we're already done. Styles from AppSwelt and Index.css have been merged into style.css and the JavaScript files have been properly minimized. it shows it indeed our application But let stop it again And return to the dev server one more time. A quick sweet dev-o and we are back up and running. Let's switch back to VS Code again, where I have added some new components while you weren't looking. They are already imported above, so I can just use them here now. Let's recap what we have learned. You can create a new project with Suite Create and use dev and build commands to develop and build the application. This is really all it takes for you to get started, so please try it out and let me know how it tastes. I think it's pretty sweet. But sweet is far from done. Here are some of the things that are up next. Pre-rendering HTML on build. TypeScript support is already in beta and there have been recent talks about library development. And of course, a suite tool like this needs a website and more documentation too. And if you have cool ideas or want to help turn suite into the sweetest thing, please get in touch. I'd love to hear from you. Last but not least, I'd like to thank all of you who've been working on Svelte Vite and especially Rickso for working on Svelte HMR. Without you, SWEET wouldn't have been possible. Thank you very much. Thank you for watching my first ever online talk and enjoy the rest of Svelte Summit. Have a great day. Thank you.