 Thank you. Hey Svelte Summit! How have you been? It's been 6 months since Stockholm already. And I'm back with updates for Svelte Inspector. We've got new features and fixes and more! But what about those of you who don't know what Svelte Inspector is? Well, it's your lucky day. We've got a small little feature in V-Plugin Svelte that allows you to press a key combo like this, and then move your mouse and see where the elements on your screen are defined in our SERT files. And not only see it, you can click and it opens the IDE. Isn't that great? If you want to see how this works, you can just go and watch my talk from last SERT summit. People loved it, you'll love it too. I promised. But let's see what's new. Keyboard navigation. Moving the mouse is great and all, but sometimes you are going to want to just select an element that you can't hover. Then it helps when you press the down arrow and it selects a child that is otherwise invisible. Or you press the up arrow and it selects a tightly wrapped parent that you can't hover either. You can also use left and right arrow to select siblings. And in combination, this allows you to move around your DOM without moving the mouse at all. You can also press the Enter key to open your IDE again and use Alt-Tab to go back out. And with that you are never going to have to use your mouse again if you don want to You can configure the arrows and the open key as well It uses DOM style parent-child sibling selection because logical left-right top-bottom is really complicated. And depending on the application, it wouldn't work either. So use what you know. The DOM is what we need and love. With this, the accessibility of the application has already improved. But we went one step further. And every time you select an element with the Svelte Inspector, it not only allows you to do it with the keyboard, It also reads you the bubble content, so you always know where you are, even if you don't see it. And of course, configuring Svelte Inspector was a topic that had much discussion. Many people wanted to change the key bindings because their browser or their operating system don't work well with the defaults we chose. I mentioned it during last summit already. It's impossible to find key bindings that work for everyone. So now everyone gets to set their own using environment variables. And you only have to set them once in your Bash RC, and all Svelte projects on your disk are going Svelte Inspector enabled. Isn't that great? And if you don't want to use a better C, you can also use the .end files with the support that Beed brings. It just works. And you don't have to use thread-config.js anymore. But you can, of course. It's not gone. It's just an additional way to configure it. And one thing that we actually enabled by default is hold mode which means that when you press the toggle and hold it it going to keep Inspector enabled as long as you keep pressing and once you let go it disables automatically. This is a nice way to not have to press the toggle twice, and if you just want a quick peek into a file, it's my preferred way of doing it. And one thing that you can't see is that Svelte Inspector actually no longer cares about SvelteKit because it doesn't have to anymore. We used to have a small workaround that was required to load Inspector, but with SvelteKit being 1.0 and using a different way to load the Inspector, it is no longer needed and now it's completely agnostic and just needs vPluginSvelte to work. We also fixed a couple of bugs and one of them has to do with hydration. If you had an application that hydrated directly into body, Svelte Inspector was deleted by that hydration and now it gets mounted outside of the body and it no longer is removed. Well, unless you remove the document element, but who does that? It also works if you have a custom base set. There was a bug that it doesn't repend the path to the call that opened the editor and then the editor just didn't open. It works now. I can't show it here live because there is no base, but trust me, it works. And one thing that you've actually already seen in action is something that annoyed me a lot. When you enabled Svelte Inspector and clicked on a file and then went back into your application, Svelte Inspector was still enabled. And when you clicked on something to interact with your application again, it would just bring you back into your IDE. And then you were trapped in this mode where Svelte Inspector was always enabled and you had to disable it from the button As you can see this now works differently Every time you leave your browser and you have opened a file, Svelte Inspector is disabled automatically. This means that you are no longer trapped, but you can also keep using Svelte Inspector while you are still in your browser. So if your IDE is in a separate window on a separate monitor and your browser stays in focus, you can still click multiple elements and it keeps working. So, with this, the usability is greatly improved and it was my personal annoyance in Nemesis and I love that this is better now. One thing that affected Linux users, especially on Firefox, was the default key combo we used. It didn't work in Firefox because Firefox had its own key binding there. And now we switch to Ctrl Shift by default, and this should work better in the default case. But as mentioned earlier, you can use any combination you want. Just put it in the end and be happy. And with that, there's only one more thing to do. That is peeling off the experimental label. As of now, BitPluginsfeld 2.2.0 has promoted Inspector to an official option. It's there to stay and use and make your productive work much easier. I hope you like it. Please keep giving feedback. I love what we got. And especially thank you, Delight, Lukas, probably Kasper, and also Björn and Puru for being helpful as ever. Also everyone else, thanks a lot. Enjoy Svart Summit. I'm Dominik. This was used to build this talk. See you next time.