 So hi everyone. This is my lightning talk, very short. Basically, the talk is about slider libraries and sliders overall on the websites. And the reason why I'm giving this talk is because I see that in really, really many cases, people are still using sliders overall on the website where maybe it's not really useful. And second thing, like when they where they use sliders and where they are useful, like they include these bloated libraries, which I don't have 10, 20, 30 kilobytes of JavaScript and 10, 20, 30 kilobytes of CSS, you know, and basically I feel like this is one of these things that kind of came quite far in the browser that we could achieve quite many things with quite a few lines of code. And I just want to kind of bring it up. Many of you probably know many of these techniques and the ways, but I just want to encourage you to go and use them because, yeah, I'll show you why. So who am I? I am Ermin and this is basically my description on the website. It's a Vienna-based web developer focused on transforming problems and ideas into digital solutions, which means just I make websites. So like, yeah, like as simple as that. So there, so as I said, there are two reasons why we should avoid sliders and slider libraries. So one is, so this is kinda, I'm trying to tackle both of the topics because in some cases we just don't need the sliders and where we need sliders. Yeah, so basically first thing is where we don't need slider, why do we don't need sliders? It's like we can, sliders are useful if they contain the content people are going to look for. look for so like for example if it's a categories on the e-commerce website and someone sees like seven categories and they expect that some category they didn't see in these first ones is like somewhere where they can swipe but where it's not useful for example is like if we want to run some promotions and we have a slider in the top of the page and a lot of people do this a lot of people do this and basically like there's on second or third or fourth slide some information and sadly, because I work a lot in e-commerce, sadly we see that these slides are not really seen. So if you put something important on second or third slide, there's maybe one or two or 3% people who are gonna see it. So it's very useless. And I think it's very important to think about this. Second thing is basically mobile device compatibility. And this is, I'm sure that all of you have experienced that you open a website and there's a slider and then you try to slide and it doesn't work and you go to the previous page and then to the next page and like basically it doesn't do what you what you want and uh this is solved by or like it's solved like at the moment there are ways that we can just use or there was for a long time there are ways how to do it in the browsers but now they're in nicer ways so i'm gonna show how to do this third like slow page load times this is what i mentioned at the beginning like if we load a lot of javascript and css to just load the slider and then basically this has to initiate especially it's if it's in the top of the page it can take some time and then like we'll get the message from google and say oh no it takes a lot of time to work here's content shift or things like this so the delusion of the message basically is the pretty much i also i'll also talk you spoke about this is basically like if we spread the message across multiple slides there's a really good chance that the visitors will just see part of it and not the whole the whole thing and yeah slide just can be annoying this is like we all again we all know this like once when you're using them like sometimes you try to slide and you click on it and then you know like it's it they they often do what we don't what we don't want them to do so what should you do as a developer like first thing you should go and talk to your designer and tell them hey please let's find another way to solve this if it's anyhow possible and i know that this sometimes sounds like oh my design doesn't listen to me but in my experience as i'm working in an agency and i work with many designers externally in 80 or 90 of the cases we would find some way to actually solve this other way so like just try it and the second is like yeah considering alternatives like trying to figure out okay what did the client what was the intention and then just go with this So I browsed a little bit around the web to figure out okay who is who is doing it good now who is who is not doing good and i gonna show the good examples by recreating them so i've seen that for example apple like dot com completely switched to not using any slider libraries but just like scrolling content like overflow content and also Ikea. So I figured as Ikea is built in Svelte, I can just try to recreate some things that Ikea did, but in very, very few lines of code, just to show you that you don't have to include 20 kilobytes of JavaScript, you can just write 30, 40 lines of code and have majority of functionality you probably need. So, hopefully wait. Yes, I'm sure there is gonna be. So actually my presentation is run also in Svelte, which is great or not great. I don't know. Let's see. Here we go. So I made a website. It's called Svelte. And basically it's, yeah, I literally went today and figured out, okay, I'll copy a few things from Ikea and make it try to look similar. And so what we have here is kind of typical e-commerce website. And for example, they have this content and this is actually the content. It's so funny because I went and it's like welcome to ikea austria see it style it breeze it i was like huh i'll just leave this one you know so it's like fine you know and so like basically usually e-commerce websites have some kind of banners where it's like ah yes let's let's promote this part that part let's promote the family the business whatever and then you know of course you don't want to show this also there are we need to find ways how to present it differently for in case someone reaches that that ninth or tenth box so first one the most obvious one and i think that's that's really easy to implement is see more so basically we show the first few items and then we'll just show the see more button i think this is very efficient because if someone is interested in more we didn't load any javascript we just literally have three items and they're loaded instantly and if someone wants to see more they will just click see more and more of the items will be loaded and we can of course continue with this and this is a practice that actually a lot of companies are using but in in also you know often i see that a lot of are not and they're like just chugging everything into the slider and then or especially like when there's just one more item they try it in the slider so basically just for a little more of value the website gets quite slower So the next step we can do if we want to use the slider is we can just make overflow scroll. And what we get with this, so I'm going to show the code. So basically this, we can scroll it through. So we get this slider functionality or scroller. I just named it scroller. And we can use this scroll bar. And on mobile, this is going to work perfectly as well. And the reason to it is because this is just regular HTML and CSS without any JavaScript. So like this, this thing here is running zero JavaScript and we have it looking quite nice. And so especially for the mobile apps or like when you have sliders on mobile, I think this is quite useful. Maybe you can load more robust solutions on the desktop, but you can go with this on the mobile. I think most of us know already how to implement this, but I can just show the code scroller. scroller so there is literally just uh overflow scroll over the parent of the cards and maybe someone doesn't know but the the handle for the for the scroll that we see can be styled so basically you can change the styles of it you can can make something else you can make it blue or whatever and make it bigger so like you can fit it your brand what i mean by this is like you maybe you don't have to implement slider to get this as some cell development or whatever you can just use the platform we're gonna return this so the next step to this is of course how about where the next and previous arrows were like bells and whistles and I have next step that called slider so basically it looks the same but we have now the arrow that will when we click it it basically takes things next level and it hides when there are no more items and you can go back and forward. It's quite nicer example. And we're already here, like, I don't know, 80% or 90% to actually help people use these large libraries. And this was done with just a few lines of code as well, where basically, so we have, we are done, literally this is 30 lines of code and this is the whole functionality. So we added the buttons like next and previous, and these can be, and it's often that actually when you import the third party libraries, you have to style these by yourself anyway. So why not just using simple slide next and previous. The way it's done is at the moment, what I do is literally just say, move the scroll 80% to the right. So you still see some that was seen before, but 80% of the content you will see will be new. And of course, this logic can be modified easily to fit whatever needs you have. Maybe like you want to measure how large is one of the cards and then just move by this one card. But like this is easily changeable. But what I meant is we didn't have to include the whole library. we could just use, because it starts from here, 8 to 28, literally 20 lines of code, and we already got the functionality. And what's cool as well is that as these are just the links and this is just a regular scroll, it's accessible as well. So basically, it just works out of box. We don't have to implement anything. Yeah. Yeah, one more thing is like, ah, but what if I want to click and drag it this is i mean on mobile this comes out of box like this is how browsers work if the element is or or flown and it needs to be scrolled you can drag it but you can also include 600 bytes library from from svelte that's called drag scroll that you literally just import and then use so basically use drag scroll and this gives you the functionality that you can also drag and drag it into browser so yeah now we're getting back to there yes so last last thing that could someone might need someone someone might need is uh scroll snap so this is also very well known by by a lot of developers who are following the latest trends but it's not so new it came out two years ago but i see it's very seldom so what is the scroll snap so sometimes we need an option to kind of fit the certain slides and certain places on the screen so we don't want to just to freely scroll left right but we're in luck because basically now um browsers widely support a feature called scroll snap which basically allows you to see like if i try to scroll it a little it will just force force me to show the whole uh the whole box so if i go far enough it will show me the next one so like if it will always try to snap it back and this works also very beautifully with the with the arrows so we get the functionality basically of the whole slider with and this the difference between this and the previous one is just two lines of code where we need to i can show it and these two lines of css where we needed to on the slider so on the parents say that the scroll snap type is x so like on the x axis and it's mandatory so it's gonna and you can look there there are many things there like scroll paddings like how much so basically this helps how much should bring should it like force it back or not and the other thing is on the item itself we need to tell uh where should it align so like scroll snap a line we can say center but the same way we could have told uh start or the end so basically like to to to show should this be centered or should be on the left and just see the beginning of the next one or other way around and you can of course change this also just simply with media queries which is also like two or three lines of code can change completely the the functionality of the of the slider so this is what i wanted to show and why i wanted to show it is because uh big brands are already using it there is no need to include big libraries just go with plain and 20 lines of JavaScript and you can get probably as far as you need to get Yeah so last thing is what are the limitations of this Like one of the big ones is for example as this is just overflow and there like when we come to the end we cannot infinitely scroll like in the sliders. So if you need that, like some people do literally, when you click on the last arrow, it just scrolls you all the way back to the front. It's not the prettiest thing, but it works. Something, some people do workarounds where they just jump you to the first one so you don't see this animation, which is also not nice. But yeah, this is basically one of the few downsides. I think it can rearrange the dumb elements. But then it moves the slider if you take the first one. But then again, you're expanding, putting more JavaScript, but that's not the point. Yeah. Yeah, so that's basically what I wanted to show on this beautiful Svelte website. Does anyone have any questions? So you said that you might not need the Slider library. Can you talk a little bit about from your own experience when you need it? Yeah, so where Slider libraries come handy is when you, for example, first, like when have different breakpoints and you have to have different behaviors on different breakpoints you know basically in this case you have to implement everything yourself in in the slider libraries you can say okay you know on on resolution smaller than this i just want two slides of course you can do it here as well but then you also need to adjust a little bit of javascript you know and then you can say for example what's missing here and what we don't see here is we don't see the pagination you know there's no like one two three four five or these dots you know so like this is something if you need it you gotta implement it yourself so like basically it's it keeps adding up so this is this is one of the things but like for most of the cases i'm not using like like i use like all of like first like like all carousel and then uh flickity and then uh there's so many like i tried all of them and they're great you know you can do a lot of things but they're bloated so like It's often, especially when you're resizing the screen or adding new items to the slider, they get through it. So I personally do not use libraries so often any longer. Yeah, because I feel that the technology in the browser came so far that sometimes clients want some specific things. For example, I know many libraries have integrated, have integrations with the other libraries. So for example, you can say, aha, I want image gallery slider, And when I click on the image, it opens it in basically this light box. And then inside that, I also want to scroll through the images. And you can implement this manually, but it takes a lot of time. And then maybe if the time is in the pinch and the client doesn't have a budget, you would just include two libraries, which is horrible, of course, performance-wise. But yeah, they're like, yeah, we really have to have this on our blog that we all have 100 of event and we don't want to through the slider we want it to interact like we want to libraries but that's pretty much it yeah that's that's another thing like this is this cannot it's not virtual scrolling so like if you have a lot of items it's not good but not also none of these slider libraries are also behaving well with a lot of items so this this is not a change there there's no difference yeah yeah also like slider libraries also have implemented okay you can see how many uh how many cards do you want to move per click you know i can say i want to move two cards or one card or all cards or you know so like there's there are a lot of options that most of people don't use you know if you go to the slider any slider library options just like documentation and just the options they're like 60 70 80 things to fill in and when when you ship or when they ship this library basically this everyone gets this everyone gets all of this code yeah so yeah any other questions Yeah, so that's all. I hope that someone learned something or is at least more encouraged to just use the browser techniques.