 Hi, my name is Grisha. I'm a full-tech software engineer with a front-end focus. In 2022, I created Threalt. Threalt is a framework to create interactive 3D web apps with Svelte and 3JS. It's not only a framework to abstract 3JS, but it also aims to enable an ecosystem of packages. For example, there's Extras, a package that houses over 50 of the most common abstractions to load models, play audio, draw text, or layout you'll see. Then there is GLTF. The GLTF package is a GLTF2CodeGenerator, which improves the GLTF workflow. There's Rapier, which integrates the excellent Rapier physics engine with 3.js. There is Theater, which integrates the Theater.js animation framework. And then there is XR, which makes developing XR-enabled apps ridiculously easy. There's Flex, which aims to resolve the lack of native WebGL UI layout engines in 3.js. But ultimately what you do when you use Threault is that you write code. The output, however, a 3D web app, is inherently visual. In all my previous Threault projects, I carefully and tediously edited props by hand, going from code to browser, back to code, back to the browser and so on. What if we had the same what you see is what you get editing experience that we know from the HTML dev tools, but then for 3JS and Threault? And today I'm excited to share with you Threld Studio. Threld Studio aims to bridge the gap between the browser and your code. Threld Studio is a scene inspector and editor. The changes you make are reflected right back to your code without the use of a proprietary data format. When you build for production, the studio just vanishes. There is no runtime dependency. Because we made sure that it easily integrates with existing Thread projects, you can opt in and out anytime. It's also fully extendable, and it comes without bogus install fees. But enough of the talk, and let's have a look at an example. Here we see a very simple Thread scene, Thread setup. It follows the best practices that we recommend and that is having a single scene component wrapped in your canvas component that Throat is exposing Inside of the scene we see that it a rather simple scene also It a camera which is made the default camera It two lights. It's one cube and a cylinder which acts as the ground. This is what the scene looks like in browser. To use the studio you just wrap your scene, your whole scene in the studio component. The other thing that you have to do is you have to go into your Vita config and add the studio plugin to run before the SvelteKit plugin. Now when we go back to the browser we see that there is a lot more happening. We have a toolbar at the top, a scene hierarchy and a viewport gizmo that tells us the orientation of the camera. Let's have a look at the tools that are in the toolbar. So first of all if you're a little bit familiar with apps like Blender then some things will be familiar here too. You can switch between local and world transformations. You can enable and disable snapping. You can switch between tweak selection and box selection of objects. You can translate rotate and scale objects. You can switch to an editor camera. You also see that there is another pane opening up down here which is the main camera that we are rendering to. You have the ability to focus on a selected object. You can view everything as a wireframe, as a so-called matcap material or as the final rendering. You may also disable and enable the grid or various helpers for cameras, lights and other things. One thing that I mentioned is that the the studio can write changes back to your disk, back to the code. And this is what you can enable here. The sync settings. You can have it on auto. That means that any change that you do is automatically written to disk. Or if you prefer a little bit more control you can leave it on manual. For now I leave it on auto. Any change that you do to your objects are undoable and redoable. Currently there are two ways to edit an object. The first one is to select it in the scene hierarchy and use the inspector to modify properties and the other one is to use the gizmo to translate, rotate and scale an object. You also see that most of these tools they have hotkeys attached so translate, rotate and scale. Now what I'm going to do is to get that cube up a little bit. And watch what happens to the cube mesh when I'm doing so. So I dragging it up and letting it go And you see that the position prop was automatically added to the code And because these changes that we do they are written back to the code in the form of props and not as a proprietary data format, we can easily check it into our version control system and always have a consistent project state. Now let's see how I can make this demo scene at least a little bit interesting. So first of all, I'm going to activate the inspector and let this cube cast a shadow. The ground will receive a shadow. The directional light I'll place a little bit more up and towards the left and it will cast a shadow. This one can actually go a little bit higher. And because our camera is here, I'd like the light to be here. I want the light color to be a little bit of a reddish color and the ambient light which is not coming from any particular direction but basically from everywhere. This one should be in a slight blue tint. Now I can go back to my camera and and zoom in a little bit. I'm going to place the camera way further up, rotate it so that it looks down on the cube. For that, I'm going to disable snapping. The white line that you see here is the center of the camera. and I think I'm going to place it a little bit further to the left here. For that I'm going to change the transformation space so that I can move it freely in this X and C plane. Now it already looks a lot better. So this is what the scene now looks like in code. Every change that you see is made by the studio itself. Dialing these numbers in by hand is time-consuming and tedious. Just like the regular Svelte Inspector, the Svelte Studio Inspector also allows you to jump to the position in the code where a particular mesh or object is instantiated. In this example I want to rotate this mesh around the Y continuously and to do that I going to use the hook useTask that runs a callback on every frame This callback is given a delta which is the time between this frame and the last frame. First I will create a reactive variable using the state rune. Then I will update the value of this signal in the callback of useTask. Next I'm going to create a property rotationY and use the signal rotationY for it. So this is what it looks like now. You can see that the cube is kind of floating. But to really drive the point home I want to employ another component from the extras package. It's called float and it does exactly what you would expect. You just wrap your mesh in it and it kind of gives this floaty vibe and slowly slowly moves an object up and down. So one thing I noticed is that the shadows have these jagged edges and this is because the shadow map doesn't have the proper resolution. To change that, I'm going to select the directional light which is casting the shadows. I'm going to select Shadow. And inside of this, I have the property width and height of the shadow map size available. I'm going to change this to be 2048 by 2048. The shadow map has been updated. If I go back to the code now, I can see that the studio is also able to set these what Threault calls pierced props. So it pierces into the object and sets the properties accordingly. The Threault Studio is not a Unity replacement or a full-blown, what you see is what you get 3D engine. It's a companion that you can use and customize to your liking. This for example is a custom extension that draws a bounding box containing all selected objects. This extension is a Svelte component itself that is passed to the Studio component we added earlier. It has access to the state and actions exposed by other extensions, as everything that the studio comes with is essentially an extension. Currently we are busy with making Threalt Svelte 5 ready. What you see here is already Svelte 5, and the studio will actually be Svelte 5 only. But we're not ready just yet. Feel free to join our Discord or follow us on Twitter to get the news first. We can't wait to see what you build with it.