 Thank you. Thank you. Hi! I was just looking through a couple of svelte applications I haven't touched in a while. I don't know about you, but I can't even remember what I had for dinner yesterday, let alone a codebase I haven touched in a month or so And that just a small website or a hobby project I think we can all agree that it would be really nice if we can somehow find a way to help us visualize the applications that we working on Imagine not having to build the mental model from scratch every time. How the hierarchy is structured, how components interact between each other, which one are using which, what props are exposed and the state of individual components, which one uses the bind directive, what events are being exposed, and many other stuff. Well, we don't need to, because that's exactly what Svelte DevTools are built for. Let's start off by getting the extension from the Chrome Web Store, which we can do by searching for it here, or clicking the link on the GitHub repository, which will take you to this page, where you can add the extension to your browser. Just click on the Add extension, and there we go! Svelte DevTools extension has been added to our browser. I've prepared a quick example for us to take a look here. All we need to do to activate our extension is to run our DevServer. As you can see, I'm running on localhost 5.173 right now. Next, we'll just need to open up our DevSools, and we can see that there's a new Svelte panel at the toolbar. We can click on it, and be presented with this page. Now don worry this is normal because prior to us clicking on this file panel there no code running on their website So all we need to do right now is to reload our local host and there we go I gone ahead and expanded all of the necessary codes for us to look at we can see at the right section there's a props events and state for the components that we've selected and for the HTML elements we can see the attributes and events we can navigate through our application using the keyboard arrow keys or using the mouse button there's also this text area with buying value we can try to change this let's say hello svelte summit and when I press enter it should change everywhere on the website and also the extension itself so there we go now you You may notice that when we're navigating through our components, something lights up at the top right on the middle here. And we can click on that to inspect the actual HTML element on the elements tab. So if we go to the main element here and we click on this, it will take us directly to the corresponding HTML elements here. Now for the other non nodes which are like the container elements or components or the application root there no corresponding native elements so we cannot go directly there but the Svelte DevTools extensions do provide a way for us to take a look at it in more details which is through this $n variable now we can open up our console by clicking escape and we can type in the $n and see what this actually is. Here's another example from the Svelte website which should demonstrate that it works with SvelteKit out of the box. Now let's say we want to remove the banner here. Now there's this shell with the banner bottom height props. I can try to reset this to zero and it should be gone. And there we go, it's as simple as that. There's a lot more to come for our browser extension now that it's out. There's still a lot of things to polish and definitely many to improve, like Firefox support, code profiling, and possibly some performance optimizations. So please, if you have any ideas or suggestions, leave them down in the issues page and I'll make sure to check them out. I really hope you're as excited as we are for Svelte DevTools and the future of Svelte. Enjoy the rest of the summit. I'm Igna, signing out.