 All right. I think we're on. Cool. Yeah. So welcome to Vienna. Great that today we have a little bit more people than the last time. Yeah. Thank you all for coming. Also, thank you to the organizers for choosing Century again to host YouTube. Always really happy to have you guys here. I'm Lukas, I work as a software engineer here at Sentry, and I work on the JavaScript SDKs. We already discussed it. I basically developed the SvelteKit SDK recently. Right now I'm working on the new SDK for Astro, but generally very excited about SvelteKit itself. Yeah, so before we're going to get into Sentry, just some general rules and organizational aspects, I would say. So just very briefly, this is a completely no smoking office, no smoking building. So please, if you have to smoke, go outside. As I think we've already told everyone, the food and the drinks are completely free. Please take whatever you want. So anything out of the fridge, anything edible essentially in the kitchen, just take it. Please take it. We don't want to waste anything. As long as there is something, please take it. the toilets are just here around basically next to this room. And I was thinking we're going to end things here around 9 p So you absolutely welcome to stay after the talks I happy to chat about anything here And yeah sort of at 9pm and we going to end things But yeah Cool So now let jump into the AdWords present I just briefly going to talk about Sentry. So what are we doing here? Well, Sentry is an application monitoring tool to monitor your apps in production. So we do different things, like for example, error monitoring, performance monitoring. Recently, we started adding session replay. On the backhand side, we also now have profiling and cron job monitoring as well. So kind of a few things basically related to, I would say, concerns of every developer, essentially, especially if we're here in web development. We know a lot of these things are very important. And yeah, that's what Sentry does. We're entirely open source. Everything we do is out on GitHub. And we're basically free to use. you can download our self-hosted version of Sentry. And if you don't want to have that additional maintenance of hosting and maintaining all the different containers and stuff like that, you can choose to give us a little bit of your money, and we will basically take care of that for you in a SaaS-based subscription solution. But yeah, that's Sentry. Sentry, we support a variety of frameworks. This is just a small subset. We have a lot of stuff for web development, for backend technologies, for mobile stuff, and for gaming as well. Yeah, way more than what would fit here on this slide. But those are the most important ones. . . SPEAKER 2 SPEAKER 2 SPEAKER 2 Yeah so since this is about SventKit let do like 30 seconds how to use Sentry with SventKit Getting started is super easy. We have this magical sentry wizard. The idea is you just type in this npx command here, and this takes care of downloading the SDK, all the dependencies, and basically also installing and adding some codes to initialize the SDK. So we use SvelteKit's hooks files to kind of hook into the application. So this is the client one, we visualize the SDK. We use SvelteKit's great error handler hook and basically the same thing on the server. And in addition, we have a Vita plugin that basically is just inserted into the VitaConvict file, which adds a bit more of auto-instrumentation around loading functions essentially of Svelte. And also it will upload source maps to Svelte. Yeah, more of that in a second. And yeah, that's basically everything you need to do. And then Sentry should work out of the box. So once you did this and deployed to production, you will get hopefully not too many, but probably a few errors coming in. And this is kind of, for example, the issue page in the Sentry application, shows you kind of what's going on, which errors were found. And within that, you can, you know, take a look at the details of the error, where it happened, which operating systems, a lot of metadata essentially around the error. And of course, most importantly, because we all need to know where it happened, the stack trace. This is where source maps come in super handy, because when you deploy your app in production it minified aglified and the stack trace isn readable at all So what we do basically in the background is once we have source and developer we kind of de your source code in a way and you should see the original source code Works 100 of the time Some of the additional stuff like breadcrumbs is showing you what happened before the error occurred. but that's basically our monitoring for performance especially in web development which will stuff like web vitals and also um we kind of go through like all the individual steps that have happened for example during a page load or navigation we can collect spans for that and this basically helps to identify performance issues um bottlenecks um basically kind of shows you really well what actually happens during the page for example and this also works across different services. So we call this distributed tracing. So you can see basically what database and backend operations happened during that page log, for example. And this works across technologies as well. Yeah, as I already said, we also have session replay, which is like a video like reproduction of the user session. We chose a privacy first approach. So everything will be be blocked out, or these stars basically substitute text. So we don't really want to know what users are actually typing their stuff. We just want to help developers basically get answers to why an error occurred, what users did before them, so things like that. And yeah, that's already it. If you have any more questions, if you want to chat about Sentry, rant about ourselves statistically, feel free to chat to talk afterwards. Thank you and enjoy the rest of the talks.