 Thank you. Welcome everyone to Hacking Svelte Lab, behind the scenes of the supercharged repo for Svelte. So, first thing first, who we are? Paolo Ricciuti and Antonio Sarcheric. You can find us on Twitter at Paolo Ricciuti or at Sarcheric Antonio. We are both full-stack developers and we both love Svelte and open source. So, how everything started? Well, Svelte Society announced the hackathon and we, as members of the Svelte community, were pretty hyped like everyone in the community. So a small little innocent tweet about Antonio who said who was down to team up to which I replied with a cute gif of a baby raising his hands and so in a matter of minutes we were brainstorming on things that could we could do to help the Svelte community because we are part of it and we want to to help the community. And so we realized that we both loved something inside the Svelte ecosystem that could have been announced. So we decided, and we realized that we both love the Svelte REPL because it's Svelte one click away, it's wonderful for prototyping, you can share really, really easily, it's fast, it's lightweight, it's very cool. But it has some problems. For example, it has no TypeScript support. You can use lang typescript, but as soon as you use a type inside your script, it will error out. You can't have access to SvelteKit stores or methods or hooks. And this is very important because SvelteKit is the recommended way to create a Svelte application nowadays. There are also other little things like no dark mode, which is crazy. no formatting, etc. And so we decided and we created SvelteLab You can try on sveltelab What it is it a REPL for Svelte made for Svelte with Svelte by Svelte lovers So it very important because first thing first it's feature-packed. So it has light and dark mode, it has code formatting, it has BIM keybindings, so I'm not a VIM user, but if you are, you can write SvelteKit blazingly fast. You can install packages, so you have the whole NPM ecosystem at your disposal. And also, very importantly, is SvelteKit Tailored. So being made by SvelteKit developers, it's SvelteKit Tailored. And so you can search the SvelteKit docs right inside your IDE. You have specific file icons that will tell you if you are inside a layout or a page or a server. It has SvelteKit regeneration. It's just like the Svelte extension for VS Code, but inside your browser. It has a Svelte add, so you can very quickly, with this wonderful community-maintained project, add integration to your SvelteKit project. You can even hide the config clutter, because let's be honest, we spent most of our time in the source folder. So you can hide all those bit.config, Svelte.config files once you have touched it. So, let's take a look. This is SvelteLab. It's your typical IDE. You have your files, your npm script, your editor, your console, and hopefully, in a while, your preview. So, let's just do something. I can create a new file, for example, a plus layout.svelte. This will obviously break the preview because we don't have a slot, so I can add a slot. And this will come back to the preview. And now right here I can use Emmet and import navigating from $app.stores And then I can use my snippet to check if we are navigating and if we are navigating we are just printing a div I will copy a bit of styles just to make it pretty And hopefully now we will have a loading indicator when we navigate away from this page But we need to navigate away from this page. So I can do Ctrl-Shift-P to bring this common palette and I can create a root, spelled summit, I can create a page.svelte and a page.server and I will have my files here and here I will just await a new promise r set timeout r 5000 to wait five seconds and in my page.svelte I don't need the script that I need I will copy this, I will go to page.svelt and I will add a link to summit to svelt.summit. I can even go here and I'll shift F and format the code. And now if I click summit, hopefully we will get a loading indicator. five seconds and then we come back to home. So let's say that I forgot how to load file, how our load function works. I can search the documentation here and this will open the official SvelteKit documentation. But also, for example, I can add one of these integrations to my SvelteKit project. I can enable Vim keybindings. So now I have Vim. I can exit Vim with a click. Also, I can install a package, for example, I can do SvelteKit search params Shameless plug is mine, and I can add it, and once it finishes installing, I can just use it I can export it to zip, and I can start a new template, for example, a new project with TypeScript and Tailwind already set up very very cool And I can share my code If it not saved you can share just a snapshot which will create this super long URL with a snapshot of your code but I can also save and I can have this very easily to share URL and I can visit for example my profile and these are all my REPL and I can change this for example and have another REPL open. So let's go back to the presentation because the time is tight and we want to specify where the main dependencies of this project, because obviously there is SvelteKit that we all love. We use GitHub as an auth provider, but also to share our code. We use Web Container API by StackBlitz. You should definitely check out because it's a very good project that allows you to run Node inside your browser. We hosted on Vercel, which was very, very sweet because we had Preview branches, very very cool. Host on Vercel because it's very cool. And we also use fly.iu plus PocketBase as our database plus Authenticator. So, what's next for the future? Oh, this is the wrong back to the future GIF, at least I hope. This is the correct back to the future GIF. And for the future, we for sure want to add proper support for TypeScript, because right now you can use TypeScript, but you don't get errors, auto-completion, and we want to add that. We also want to add the proper way to open a GitHub folder or project inside SvelteLab. We also want to provide you for the ability to upload your files, for example, for assets. We have a lot of plans for the future, so keep an eye on. Finally, we want to thank you, everyone, because we want to thank Svelte Society for organizing the Hackathon, because it was a very, very cool experience. The Svelte community as a whole, because we had a wonderful response to this project from the community. We want to thank the Svelte maintainers and contributors, because it's for your work that we were able to do all of these in two months. and Svelte and SvelteKit are just wonderful. We want to thank the StackBlitz team for open sourcing the Web Container API because it's a very cool concept, and obviously we want to thank you for listening to this presentation. Bye!