 Welcome to Svelte Radio. Hey, long time no see. Welcome back to another Svelte Radio episode. I'm Kevin, one of the hosts. I run a site called Svelte School. and I'm heavily involved in the Svelte Society community. I wonder if we have to keep introducing ourselves each time. Yeah, I don't know. I'm Sean. I'm head of developer experience at Temporal.io, and I just really enjoy Svelte. I think you need to keep introducing yourself, Sean, because you've always got a new job. No, I'm trying to stay. You know, I've got to accumulate some equity. I can't do this. I keep doing this to myself. I'm Anthony, I'm CTO of Bianc and I'm also a Svelte maintainer although in the last month I don't really want to claim that because I really have literally not even looked at it it's been a rather busy month for Bianc due to the lockdown lifting and the summer, the English summer is actually here although it's raining today but it's actually here, which is great yeah, yeah so we could probably talk a bit about what's new lately what have you guys been up to? well, I mean, it's kind of weird seeing everybody reopen because we're actually going through a second outbreak here in singapore the india strain is spreading here and uh i i don't know i just i worry that like it's going to happen to other countries and you're gonna get caught in the momentum of like everyone's reopening and people going back to the cinema and and all that and uh i just say you know like hang on like there there are some countries that are still facing um second outbreaks and there are variants so i don't know not to be a wet blanket but just be careful so yeah so i think i think i covered this brought one it's one of being one of those weird blessing and curse things obviously it's caused a lot of problems for us of travel business it's been a very difficult last last three years have been quite tough really um but the kind of the silver cloud uh so the silver lining in those clouds is one is we had more time to get the product right with very low traffic for a very long time Um sure we run out of money a couple of times but it more you know we got the product to match people expectations And I think the second one is one of the things that's really helped us survive and get things right is we helped providers who, you know, wanted to run things but couldn't because of restrictions, figure out how to do their business in a COVID safe way. So we've all been kind of helping and coaching each other to make this um to make this happen so actually it's it's kind of given as a different business model we never expect or never could have predicted even and and now as it's as it's coming you know out of lockdown there's still quite a few restrictions in place and it's meant that those we've been able to kind of bring those people's businesses into something real whilst they would have otherwise been flatlining essentially effectively or even going bust so yeah necessity is the mother of invention yeah yeah so we just uh we just opened up uh so here in sweden you they never really locked down so you've been able to go to restaurants but they they've been closed at i think 8 p.m i think but just now they opened up so they can stay open to half past 10 that's pretty nice so i went out to get some some drinks in the in the summer sun yesterday very very very nice and it's all it all it's also nice because it coincides with the swedish summer which is like the two months where you can actually do something nice in sweden outside i think sweden's interesting right so what's the final verdict because they had they were the one country that bucked the trend uh no lockdown no mass mandate just treat everybody like adults and it worked yeah yeah i i think it well i mean people say it didn't work in in like but now you have numbers opinions yeah i i know i know but people say are saying like oh but if we lock down they would be lower you know it's like uh you can't really you can never win in a sense that makes like well you know you can you can always go against You can compare it with peer countries and say, like, was there that much of a difference? If there wasn't, then probably it had no effect. So similarly, something that's going on is Texas lifted their lockdown restriction quite early. And a lot of people were very upset about that You said you literally killing people But as long as people are vaccinated or they treat themselves well they should be fine Adopt Yeah You don't have to use the rule of law to enforce some of these things. And it's interesting. I'm not an epidemiologist or anything. Sometimes I think when people have a very strong conviction that something's going to happen because of a policy, it turns out to be completely unfounded. And I think people need to be a little bit more Circumspect about what they believe Is going to happen about the future Yeah, I think So isn't Much of the Polarization Is from the US Political scene You had Trump saying something And then everyone had to be against What he said, pretty much I'm sure there's controversy in Sweden as well Oh, definitely definitely like so much discussion about oh should we lock down should we open up more should we never ending as well i just checked out after a while i couldn't bother reading about it reading about it yeah it's probably probably very similar here really just you know the government saying one thing and then releasing restrictions too early and then everyone blames them for doing it too early and then they locked down again everyone blames locking it down again it's just you can't win so yeah all right all right enough covid news yeah yeah svelte is that what the podcast is actually about so uh so let's uh let's start with scott tolinski's doing with his with his uh website or what he may may be doing with his website well he so he's pitched this on on discord really he sort of starts on discord because he appeared sort of you know he appears now and then but he appeared recently and uh he's just asking for help on svelte kit and rebuilding components and what people doing with graphql and stuff and uh then it turns out he's basically mvp-ing rewriting the entirety of level up chutz level up toots i can't even pronounce it in um in svelte kit i mean obviously like he said it's too big a site and he's not planning to do it but But the more he goes on, the more you realize you might actually just end up doing it because once you start, you just can't stop. And he's shown some videos on Twitter, and the amount of code differences is almost unreasonable. It like a 20 file turned into four lines or three lines or something So I don know it sounds pretty interesting um and the graphql stuff he doing i know nothing about graphql but it looks it looks really sort of straightforward um a really easy way to sort of fetch data and things so pretty interesting pretty interesting stuff yeah i'm betting on uh on him actually going ahead and converting it at some point i think i would yeah i would probably make that bet the thing is he says it would be the second rewrite since 2015 or something. But then, you know, the fact it's already happened once before is a good sign. It's a good precedent. Yeah. Nothing else to say about that. So he did a live stream of one hour of him converting stuff. And apart from that, he did three hours of conversion and he got to a pretty high fidelity. So if you want, you can check out the live stream. We'll leave it in the show notes. Yeah, I haven't watched that. I shouldn't. I browsed it. There was a lot of CPU issues because he was using a new Mac plus OBS. And OBS just really kills your system. I've had that as well. So I've just decided to not live stream because just the slowdown actually is very distracting when you're coding. I think there's a better way to live stream where you essentially have one machine that just is your coding system. And then you have a different machine that just records and sends only responsible for live stream. But I haven't set it up yet. yeah it's just not not worth it it's not a good watch like i'd much rather record and then edit out boring sections and then upload the video on youtube yeah definitely pros and cons there with like interaction right if you if you get some people watching you can go back and forth a bit yeah all right so uh what's what's new in svelte this this month or these last two months yeah I'll cover this May update. So for those who don't know, we do have a blog on sveltes.dev slash blog that Daniel Sandoval actually updates, which is pretty cool. He used to do this as his own initiative, and I think now we just more or less made it official that this is the Svelte newsletter. And I think you can also subscribe on Substack if you want to get it in your email instead of find out on Svelte Radio. So new feature in Svelte 3.38 is CSS custom properties. I think the official name for this feature is style props. And I think it was a little bit controversial.

 just because it introduces a wrapper element that injects CSS custom properties, and it makes it a lot more ergonomic to do that. But people don't like the fact that it includes a wrapper element. Discuss. Yeah. Even if it's a wrapper element, it's just like it has that display contents, right? So it actually doesn't affect the layout and stuff. just used for actually applying the style properties. But, I mean, you get dividers, right? Or whatever it's called. Is that the name for it? When you have too many divs? Yeah, dividers. Yeah. Oh, yeah, okay. Yeah. Which is why, so there was actually a pretty creative discussion. I don't know, Anthony, if you know the context behind this. So you don't have to use div. if you use an unrecognized html element the browser is still going to put it in the hierarchy it just won't display anything so you could say html5 right sorry that's a feature of html5 is it not i don't know what version maybe it's always been there i think so but the browser has always been very tolerant of like if you typoed something it's just still going to show something it may not be what you want but right uh it's not going to like error so there was a discussion about not using div you could use you know made up name like uh rich or something and and so then you don't have a chance of some existing css accidentally targeting that div i think that yeah wouldn't the aversion to that be though that you're kind of almost inventing a new language on top of html at that point well that's what we're doing i mean it's kind of it's kind of it's it's done in necessity but i think i think if we start writing in a whole new language then we're moving further away from the goal yeah that's being like a slight super set i don't know maybe maybe you're right maybe you're right i think that's kind of an interesting thing though you could call it like custom css props or something you could call it anything just be yeah obvious in your HTML tree that, okay, this is a Svelte thingy. Don't touch it. Anyway, so that was one discussion. I think the other... So for what you use it for is for theming You can easily pass in anything that passes for a CSS variable value into a style prop and it comes out looking pretty good. I actually made the PR for the docs where you can actually see this. So I guess we'll leave it in the show notes because it's hard to describe code. Yeah. Did you guys try this? It makes it a lot easier to transfer values from JavaScript into CSS, whereas previously, in Svelte, there was no way to do that. I wish there was a little way, I wish there was a way to go a little bit further and to do pure air quotes, CSS and JS in Svelte. But right now you'd have to do, you have to use a separate library or write your own. Yeah, it's interesting. So I think they've discussed this so for so long and so many times. They're like the maintainers in general, I think are pretty against doing a full, full blown CSS and JS thing. I'm sure there will be endless more discussions about this in the future as well. But this is, this is definitely a nice stopgap. I made this, this nice little, uh, REPL where I tried the new feature a bit and it's, it's actually very nice. For example, like you can, you can have buttons and style them very easily just using CSS props. we can include that in the show notes as well have you guys tried the feature? I haven't had a chance it's simple it does what it says it does it really is used for theming that's what you should use it for I've got examples where I've had to write my own styling classes that you pass into a component that's in the library So I will at some point get a chance to rewrite that. So I'll use this instead. But yeah, again, time pressures means I haven't touched it yet. The one thing that this doesn't really do, and maybe that's what you were touching on there with the CSS and JS thing, Sean, is that you can't really access them inside of the component that you apply them to, right? So say you put a dash dash red or dash dash color red on your child component. It's not like it can change that inside of the child component. It's just set there. So I don know if there something in between there No I have no problem with that at all If you already inside that component then you have full access to the CSS This is about passing from the parent to the child So I think it's okay. Should we also mention the style directives RFC? Oh, yeah. So this is slightly related, and it will be a little bit more powerful. So the style props RFC, which has been merged and did ship as of Svelte 3.38, works on components. So these are Svelte constructs on top of existing HTML elements. Whereas the style directives RFC would work on elements, not components. So they would be style colon and then some CSS, some inline CSS. So basically this would do for Svelte what the class directive does for Svelte currently. So right now, when you do class colon some class name, you can actually break up a bunch of classes and actually toggle them true or false based on or toggle their values based on some values in JavaScript. And you don't have that equivalent power in inline styling. So with this RFC, you would. It hasn't been implemented yet, but I think it's been more or less accepted by Rich. So that's what's going on there. So there's actually a PR up for it where I think it's almost done. Let's see if I can find it. I linked the RFC for show notes, so it's got to be there. Okay, so I found the PR there. And it looks like there's just something to do with parser warnings and errors. Otherwise, it seems to be done, basically, just waiting to go in. And this has been, oh, wow, since the 24th of January, actually. Wow. Work continues. Yeah. Yeah. I guess we just need to wait for it to be merged. Yeah. Should we move to the June update? Yep. Yeah. It's actually a bunch of new SvelteKit things. the layout and error pages have been renamed from using like a dollar sign to double underscores. And let's see here. Oh, the new package thing, right? So there a new Svelte package feature that you can use to basically make packages that you can put up on npm i have a feeling the dollar again i haven really been watching the chat that closely but i think the dollar thing is because um dollar generally designates stores or internal things whereas it doesn't really make sense for a file name yep that makes sense yeah scott's covered this in his uh live stream right so i don't know what the api error is but yeah it makes sense that you don't want to conflict with the store name stuff. No. There's also just interestingly, there's another discussion going on right now about the way RxJS puts a dollar at the end of the variable name. And there's definitely some support for that among the maintainers to move the dollar to the other side. It also makes it a lot clearer when you're defining a store or accessing it as a store rather than the stored value. It's a lot clearer if the dollar's at the other side, but whether or not we'll change that or not, I don't know, but it's a huge breaking change. So it's not going to just appear. Yeah, that would be Svelte 4. Yeah, right. Yeah, I have no opinion about that, I think. I'm just used to the dollar in front. Yeah, it does get a bit confusing sometimes because, I mean, also the dollar at the start is a lot like the reactive label, like the destiny operator, as it were. So it did kind of make sense to me on the end. I hate to make a big change like that, but it does make sense. For example. It's more in line with other frameworks, RxJS being a... Kind of makes sense, I guess. Right, what else? What else? A bunch of bug fixes for SvelteKit as well. The adapters are being broken and fixed 24-7, pretty much, is my understanding. Yeah. But did you do some stuff with the Netlify adapter, Sean? I think I saw something. Yeah, look, a lot of these are just maintenance fixes. Because I am a former Netlify employee, I know Netlify pretty well. So I just helped to shore up the docs, and we made some changes as to where you should put your redirects files. All these are very small, but I think the more we use SvelteKit, the more we help to make it production-ready. and it is not yet. So we just need everyone to use it and then find issues and then also fix them. So that's it.

 That's what's going on. Yeah, I've been rebuilding Svelte School in SvelteKit. Let's see if I ever finish my 10 other rebuilds that never materialized. I know. I'm trying to move my own site from Elder.js to SvelteKit as well. It's extra work, and I don't know. I just have to dogfood it, that's all. It's hard to justify compared to, let's say, writing another essay or something. One that I quite like, because I ran into it myself, is that when you were rendering a non-text body before, you couldn't cache it. The automatic caching would actually break, so you'd have to explicitly set a no-cache header. So that's bug number 1382. Basically, stricter body types and e-tags are binary responses, which means you can now send back any kind of response, any kind of data. You can render an image directly to the endpoint, and it will cache it correctly and set the correct caching headers. Importantly, it will render it. Before that, it didn't actually render it. It just crashed 500 or something. So not a very exciting bug, but certainly a good thing to have. Yeah, for sure. It's just funny because we're now basically taking on a bit of the job of Express as well. I mean, entirely, I think. Entirely? Yeah. Well, because it's a Lambda, isn't it? It's a raw Lambda. So we kind of eschew Express entirely and just serve things straight up. Is that what you mean? Yeah. It's just interesting. Like you work on Svelte as a front-end framework, and now you're worrying about things like e-tags for binary responses. Right, yeah. See what you mean? Yeah. Well, exactly. I suppose we've gone into a full app building thing, I suppose, that makes sense. It was weird because in SAPR, obviously, we try and hide it from you. So, yeah, you could render things from endpoints or, you know, server routers are called, but essentially you have nothing to do with it unless you start hacking around with Polka or Express or whatever. Now it's kind of you end up involved in it anyway. Is anyone paying close attention to what Remix is doing with their form submission APIs? I'm not. I'll link a video in the show notes, but they're doing some interesting stuff that makes it easier to do progressive upgrades of form submissions. Progressive enhancement of form submission. And it's just a lot less state. I like it We could easily steal it for Svelte if we wanted So I put it in the show notes for people to check out I think you get a lot of buy for that I think at Svelte Summit, I think Rich talked a bit about forms, right? Yeah, he did. He covered this exact sort of thing about how to build a form so that it works as a form. And then, you know, you can enhance it with JavaScript on the client side. and he was saying that's the definitive yeah yes sorry uh i guess that was more about like part what's it called ah something something degradation beautiful degradation no uh yeah what's it called i don't know i know you mean but i don't know what it's called yeah yeah well i'm sure people have figured graceful degradation graceful degradation that's the one yeah so it basically works without the the javascript yeah speaking of of elder js by the way um there's a new elder js channel on the well we were before before we talked about this the stuff um there's a new uh channel on the discord for elder js where you can get help and you can discuss it and all that stuff. Yeah. Nick is back shipping more and more stuff. I think he has some health issues that he's gotten over, thankfully. I think we'll have him on for a future episode, right? Yeah. He's booked in for a couple of weeks. I think. He's got an interesting story and the reason he's working on SvelteKit so much. I look forward to that interview. it's going to be fun yeah and elder jace is now getting um hmr right which is a quite big thing uh oh right yeah yeah i did read something about that that's going to be nice yeah i don't know if he's doing it i think maybe someone's in the community is contributing it but um it's definitely in progress from what i understand yeah hmr is nice for sure yeah it's weird because it's a static site generator so it's a bit difficult to do it as a static site generator but i was reading this morning about something about random routes it generates pages kind of on random routes so you can see the changes on the fly even though they're static generated otherwise that's pretty cool yep i should probably cover just because we done the june thing uh request so we realized at some point that we were calling literally everything context because it the kind of word that befits exactly what it is But it's really confusing if everything is called context because getContext has no bearing on the endpoint context, which is what we previously had. So we bike-shedded for literally hours to try and figure out a better name for what the the context that is passed to the endpoint which is definitely not context is called and so we came up with request.locals the reason being it's a set of variables and things and objects whatever that are local to the specific request i.e every request get a new set of them so request.locals is a new is a new endpoint context um and you can see the PR for that as well. And the other thing actually came out of the more recent maintainers meeting, which I'm not a member of. I didn't join that one, sorry. Was it we've added Red Hatter as a maintainer? Red Hatter, I can't remember their last name, but the first name is Arbor. He made the Chrome extension, the DevTools one, I think. It's possible they made that. I can't remember exactly, but I know the name. I've seen it appear quite a lot. Yep. So what's he been working on? Is he doing... Well, I don't know because I haven't been paying attention. Oh, right. Yeah, that makes sense. Have you guys used the Svelte DevTools? I've never actually tried it out. Never needed it. I did, but I didn't find much benefit because Svelte is so simple. I didn't find a huge benefit in the DevTools and what I was doing. but they do work and I have seen all the stores you can get like a hierarchy of all the stores that turn up down the pipe and stuff it's pretty cool yeah I use it it's pretty nice what else? Svelte Knobby? before we move on from DevTools I should also mention that React to DevTools got a nice new feature which is essentially an error boundary toggle you can essentially force a component to render an error and see what happens to your UI so it could be an interesting one to steal yeah that's i mean the error boundary rfc is still there yes we've not worked on it yet but that would be a cool thing to have and then definitely having a toggle for that would be even better yeah just just seeing errors like how your component reacts when there an error yeah definitely nice i suggested suggested a chaos party mode where you just turn it on and it just randomly throws errors around your app Oh, dear. I don't want to know what happened with that. It happened to my app. It's only in development, so it doesn't matter. Yeah, sure. It's just I might get a reality check. Everything breaks. Yeah. Yeah. Cool. Okay. Svelte knobby. So this is the kind of thing Rich made for changing props in your components at runtime? So as a dev tool, pretty much, right? Like Storybook has knobs. I'm not sure where the knobby name comes from, and I think it means something different for British people. but I think it's for me it comes from Storybook where the knobs extension lets you actually toggle the values of some props that go in so you can visualize what happens as you change the values so it just automatically interprets all the props and you just drop it in wrapping around an existing component and it pops up this control panel where you can actually play with it so I think it's like that that idea of visual feedback that you can play with your components and see them live instead of having this cognitive mismatch or distance of change things in IDE and then see them live and then go back to the IDE and translate, keep the mental mapping in your mind. Yeah, it's definitely nice for UI libraries and stuff like that where you want to showcase different variations of something, of a component. Unreasonably annoyed that I can't drag it to another part of the screen there. You could make that. Yeah, it would probably take a few more lines of code. So it actually gave me this idea of, instead of messing around with just the values, why can't we just mess with the source code of the component that any component that we click on? Instead of just going back to your editor and then finding the right component to edit and then editing that, why don't you just click on the component and it pops up an editor in your browser? You change the thing. We have the ability to save files from the browser back to your file system. So why don't we just do that? So I haven't done it yet, but I'm very tempted. I was thinking about it today. Should I spend two hours and knock it out? Because I've done something similar before, which would basically mean inverting the IDE, right? So right now, the IDE...

 IDE, if you can imagine, a lot of times when we develop, we have the IDE and then we translate to the browser. But what if the browser was your main canvas and the IDE just popped up in context next to the component you were editing? That would be cool. You should definitely try to make a kind of proof of concept of that. What would be nice is combining this with the Svelte Inspector extension because you could have a list of all your components. You could search for them, filter them, and then modify their value. So it'd be quite cool. You mean the Svelte DevTools? Yeah, so the DevTools, yeah. Yeah. I would have to check if you have access, file system access, from the DevTools. I don't think you do, right? Because that would be a pretty strange permission to give to your DevTools. Yeah, that's true. Yeah, that's true. Anyway, you know, that'd be cool. More ideas. Well, and also, I think you briefly mentioned SvelteKit package, which is a new SvelteKit command, which also built just to push out knobby uh and yeah it's a it's a way to bundle components i think previously whenever people wanted to make shareable components we just set that to like the component template github repo yeah and that that one that that one that doesn't have support for like well the problem is there like if you want to write your components in typescript you'd have to like make sure it builds out to yeah yeah or you'd have to have the preprocessor in the project where you imported the package into but i think this solves everything of that all of that well there you go yeah i haven't tried it yet so i think i'm gonna try it this weekend see if it's any fun i'm sure it is uh svelte motion this is a cool library yeah i had no i don't know any context behind this did you guys know about this no i i think i just saw it on the Discord or Twitter? I'm not entirely sure. Yeah, so Michael Lute comes out of nowhere and just drops this fully featured animation library for Svelte, basically porting over React Motion from the React ecosystem. And the docs are great, and everyone's excited about it. I think it's just like, he didn't even bother to rename the API. So it still has a lot of the React API like use something Yeah yeah i have that that oh i don like when when people used to use uh thing for stuff other than the uh the actions it's uh but that's just my pet peeve i guess i know yeah well anyway it's got it's got really nice support for animation layout gestures motion value uh and even has like a roadmap for for more things that he wants to add so just a really cool out come out from nowhere open source type thing you know every now and then you get one of these drops that are just like whoa where did you come from yeah and uh yeah this one's this one's a pretty major effort i wonder if so looking at the doc site i wonder if the menu is using svelte motion because you can see like the oh yeah yeah i didn't notice at first but looks pretty cool it's got a little nice pop that's the thing about motion like if it's tasteful it doesn't beat you over the head that it exists yeah but then when you notice the details you're like oh look at that that's cool it's uh it's what was the talk at svelte summit about this whimsy and i don't remember it yeah exactly talks about this it's a good talk uh cool right what's this breakthrough of the year? I'll briefly mention this because there's nothing to do. SvelteKit is nominated for Breakthrough of the Year. Last year Svelte itself was nominated for Breakthrough of the Year and won. This year SvelteKit is a nominee alongside of VEET. So I don't fancy our chances, but you can check out what happens at the end. I think the voting is closed already, so there's nothing we can do here. I did cast my vote. I was asked to vote and I did cast my vote but I mean it would be pretty funny for the thing that's built on top of Vite to win over Vite you know there's people who create the thing right and there's people who use the thing there's two options there so you know you can write something brilliant and not do anything good with it and then you can do something fantastic with something that already exists so there's chance there's still there's still hope i'm i'm gonna be happy if either of them wins yeah pretty much cool okay and this is one year of svelte radio but it's technically it's not but in practice it is because the first episode doesn count that was just a five minute news show that i did once so uh yeah so you know i i knew i knew that we were coming up on some kind of anniversary and i just checked i was like oh yeah we started doing this in may of last year and uh it's it's uh still been going strong i really enjoy getting together and people people listen to us i don't know why but yeah that's the most important problem right people listen yeah i think it's it's it's it's fun it's a lot of fun to to get together and just uh talk about svelte it is i love keeping up to date with what's going on from you two because i have no idea you're just uh you're just putting your head down and working on the onk all the time often often is the case yep yeah i i think also some things that are interesting are like we're podcasting from three different countries and my time zone is weird so uh we've had some screw-ups in the past so i'm like just like well it's was there was there a recording today yeah and uh also you know i think we all three of us organized uh our own meetups in our in our respective cities and i it's it's just i don't know i just find it pretty poetic that like you know when covid happened we all just pivoted to podcasting and now we've done a year of it you know just it flew by yeah and it's definitely as well yeah absolutely no i find it interesting that obviously sean works but lives in one country works in another country and podcasts another country so i don't know how you fit all this stuff in but my my body clock is just all kinds of screwed up i actually it's probably very unhealthy and i'm trying to get back to the u.s uh asap but the visa situation isn't cooperating so we'll see yeah yeah what what is your what is your day like like do you wake up in the middle of the night or yeah i don't know i wake up at like 6 p.m i spend time with family until like 9 or 10 p.m. and then I start work. And then I go until... Well, actually, most of the time I start work at 12 now because I work on the West Coast hours. And then I go until 6 or 7 a.m. And yeah, that's my work day. I try to do... I started my own small little podcast. So at the end of the day, every day, I take something from one of the podcasts I quit I listen to and I clip a five minute clip of it Uh and that my daily practice of like just make something every day you know and i try to blog as well but that about it that the daily routine is what i call the reverse nine to five so instead of going from 9 a.m to 5 p.m you can go to 9 p.m to 5 a.m uh and uh i mean it's quiet it's just like it's hard to get food yeah that's true how so i i remember when i when i was in singapore i i used to like love those like hawker centers are those they're all closed yeah okay you have to use like a delivery service or something i don't know i mean i just uh end up going to the grocery store and buying you know junk food which is not super healthy yeah yeah i mean it's not great as well like just the circadian rhythm is all over the place but yeah you do what you you do what you must uh and it is lower taxes so i i do earn an american income but pay singapore taxes and cost of living which is much lower yeah that's pretty yeah it doesn't sound too bad okay should we uh should we get into the unpopular opinions sure i think you're up first all right because i because i wrote it first because i have the most unpopular opinions all my opinions are actually unpopular that's that's an unpopular opinion um so i'm still getting over your uh your comments oh i'm i want to double down on that actually but um so so uh my my unpopular opinion is is that vegan equivalents of of recent you know recent times are actually better than the real thing uh in a lot of cases so it's not for sake of necessarily wanting to eat vegan food or vegetarian food it's just that whenever you go shopping now or you order from a takeaway place i would say that now probably 30 to 40 percent of the food on offer is is specifically vegan um people are really going hard on the on the vegan thing which is great like you know i totally support that i support eating less meat i don't I don't support eating no meat or dairy or anything like that, but I support eating less meat. And what I've found is that the vegan equivalents that you can get from takeaways and from supermarkets now are often considerably better than the real thing. Most notably would be the mock duck. So vegan mock duck is generally made from seitan, which is, I actually don't know what it is. It's some sort of thing. It's gluten. It's gluten. I don't know. 100% gluten from wheat. Yeah. So you take wheat and then you whiten it.

 wash it and you get out all of the protein which is the gluten and you just make that into like a ball yeah oh that's that's even better than i thought that's amazing yeah okay well so yeah so so the satan is fantastic for my me luckily i'm not celiac right because it would be terrible if i was yeah but yeah so this mock duck is the texture when they make it into mock duck is absolutely perfect it's the exact texture you get from duck when you when you cook it it gets those crispy bits that the duck skin gets as well so it's just literally like eating duck and then they put all the flavoring on you know the sauce you'd have in the duck and the hoisin and stuff and it just it's better than eating duck because duck is very fatty there's all sorts of like pulling it off the bone and all that kind of stuff you have to do and it's just you know it's it's ultimately quite nice but i get i get probably 110 of the enjoyment i get from eating duck that i do from eating seitan mock duck right so it's actually better um and then briefly then the more recent things I've talked about Beyond Meat before. I do prefer Beyond Meat burgers to real burgers now. In the majority of cases, there's sometimes an exceptional burger, but the pork ribs and wings that a lot of takeaway places started doing, especially in the UK now, are just, they're all the enjoyment of the real thing. All the flavors are there. The texture's there. You kind of almost forget that it isn't the meat. It's just, you know, you're not eating an animal and it's effectively cheaper, right? And the other thing is the ribs they make. Again, I don't know what they're made of. It might be jackfruit. It might be mock duck i'm not sure so it might be satan i'm not sure but all the textures are there they've they've replicated the fatty bit they've replicated the meaty bit they've replicated the way that when you pull a pork rib apart you know you've got all the sort of layers that come off it they've they've replicated it exactly with these vegan proteins and glutens and things and it's just fantastic it's just why why am i eating meat anymore it doesn't make any sense you know um so that's my unpopular maybe popular opinion i don't really know depends on who you talk to depends on the crowd will disagree but uh i haven't tried these but i'm excited to try them um and yeah i mean i definitely think that there's a chance that you know by the end of the century most of us will be eating mostly meat replacement stuff and that's probably a big step for the environment excited about it i i just think it's it's gonna take a while yeah i usually like over here it's super expensive unfortunately Really? Like, yeah. So it hard to to like justify the cost but I think it come down over time time I think it new still Oh for sure For sure For sure It probably like a scale thing right Yeah. You can scale up the production to make it cheaper. I mean, it's on par with cheaper here. Well, that's great then. Why not eat that? Have you guys heard about Solar Foods? No. So it's a Finnish startup that are – so as I understand it, they're extracting like the carbon from the air and using like bacteria, much like they do like – so it's kind of like making beer. But instead of like adding – like instead of adding stuff to it, they just take the carbon from the air and they produce protein from that. which is crazy in my head. So I'm excitedly waiting for them to come up with some kind of product that I can try. I mean, that sounds amazing. That's literally two birds on one stone, as it were. It almost sounds too good to be true, you know? It does, doesn't it? Sean, your turn. Cool, my turn? Mine's very quick. I recently joined Right Sidebar Gang, is what I call it. Oh! so disgusting for those who don't know in in vs code or in like a normal id usually you have your file explorer in the left sidebar uh and i have become quite accustomed to popping it in and out with the command b short keyboard shortcut but every time you pop it in and out because especially because i do a lot of talks or live streams and stuff like that you want your screen to be as clear of distractions as possible right so the sidebar is a distraction if you're not navigating it all the time so you just pop it out whenever you need to but the problem is that every time you pop it out because it's on the left sidebar everything else has to relay out i never thought about that yeah and so uh scott hanselman from microsoft has been saying this for a long time and i don't know what made me do it but i suddenly was like okay you've been preaching at this for like literally like i don't know five years i will try this out and see the benefits and it's neater. Because I do this probably 30 times a day. And so every time I pop stuff in and out, it doesn't relay out my whole code and Windows anymore. So I have joined right sidebar gang It takes a while to break the habit though of like Hey I want to change files And you go left and you like no I didn think about that at all but that that's a really good reason to put it on the right side. It is unpopular, but like, it's also not super controversial because yeah. Yeah. All right. So my unpopular opinion, I usually don't have one, but mine is, I like Sublime Text 4. It might also not be an unpopular opinion. It's a new version of Sublime Text. It recently came out. So it's very fast. That's it. You don't have to wait for stuff to happen like you do with VS Code sometimes. You know, you open a new VS Code window and you have to wait for five seconds or whatever. That's nice. Interesting. yeah there's this spectrum between an editor and an IDE right yeah so Sublime is much more on the side of text editor yeah yeah definitely do you use Vim mode is there like a Vim mode or I don't know Vim I wish I did though Vim is awesome I always wanted to be one of the cool kids Vim is very cool actually but yeah it's a bit cryptic obviously exit is escape colon q done that's all there is to it there's nothing complex about it what if it was just gonna ruin everyone's jokes escape just push in command mode colon command q quit easy yeah that's too complicated for me okay for the for the people who use vs code who are also former vim users i'm going to drop this tip from Jared Palmer inside of the show notes as well. It's a, it's a way to expand the section. So if you're in an element and you want to get the wrapping element, but it's all the way down, the close tag is all the way down below. So in Vim, it's easy to just expand out the selection and just increasingly just capture more and more elements around it. But typically in, in, in a visual editor, you would just like scroll up and down and drag and try to find like, is this the right, I don't know. so there's a keyboard shortcut to do that so check it out if you're in vs code yeah that that should be a thing i mean why don't i use that i don't know completely exist in sublime you just have to find it yeah yeah i mean there so many cool tricks like the one i use i use so often it the one where one where you hold control shift I think and down and you get multiple cursors right So you can set me a line I use it all the time It's just all that stuff with cursors is fantastic. Yeah, command E for VS Code, yeah. Same with the duplicate line, up and down. You're on a line and you just go up and down to copy them. That's also nice. All right. Picks. We're already at the end. oh yeah entities first yeah uh let me just remind myself what my pick is now oh yeah so um yeah my pick is another sort of eco thing gethomethings.com so this is obviously a uk only product but um essentially when when you buy like a detergent for cleaning your cat your house with or you know you buy those spray bottles that you know you clean surfaces with you're buying a bottle of water effectively and it's got sort of a disinfectant mixed in with it someone's shipping that water in a big van, you know, thousands of bottles of it. Someone's shipping those crates in the van in a ship somewhere. You know, it's all this water being shipped around the world. And more recently, people have found that you can just essentially get a tablet, the whole disinfectant part compressed into a tiny tablet, put in a packet, and then all you need is an empty spray bottle and a pre-existing plastic bottle so there's no plastic waste, and your own water from the tap, right? If you're lucky enough to have running water in your country, it means that effectively then you've got this same exact thing without all that shipping and you can ship millions and millions and millions at once it's just a fantastic idea so we bought a bunch off facebook um shame to say we sort of have it on facebook sometimes you do um but we bought a bunch off this ad and it's fantastic it's it's equally as good as the stuff we already had but there's no shipping at all the price is is higher than it normally would be because obviously it's a new company it's a small company um but the more people who get involved with us and buy this then the better that price will become um and yeah and it's lasting forever because you get like a box of 16 tablets or something um they give you a glass spray bottle so you have to start you know trying to find plastic bottles to spray it from it's great fantastic so uh check it out if you've got an equivalent in your country just uh i don't know what you what you call it or what you'd search for but essentially a tablet that you dissolve in a bottle ah clean cult there we go so it looks like there's a few already i just i went googling while you worth talking about this i also regret to inform you that you've picked this before it's worth doubling down it's a double pick it's a double pick yeah it's on your mind it's a good pick

 It is. Yeah, it is. But no, it's hard to get track of the picks. I look for a US equivalent. And this one, I don't think it's a tablet, but it's nice and refillable. And it's got a very nice website. Whatever we're not shipping the water. That's the important part, I think. Blueland? Yeah, Blueland. Okay, I'll pitch Blueland. I don't know. I'm sure you can Google the equivalent idea if you want to do that. I mean, this feels so obvious when you hear it, right? Yeah. like the idea it's like it feels very obvious it's it's almost weird that it hasn't been done before oh yeah it's obvious in hindsight people get very addicted to selling you water yeah so that's true it's very true i mean it's also you know it's far more uh as a consumer if you saw the two things on a shelf you'd buy the water one because it looks like you're getting more, right? Right. Yeah, possibly. Yeah. Yeah. Cool. All right. Well, moving on, I'm going to pick Svelte form libraries. So I just noticed that there are a lot of community form solutions. So I tweeted out one day just some collection of ideas. I know, Kev, you have like two Svelte form solutions or something. They're pretty dead at the moment. So there were some talks on that that we did at the recent Svelte Summit. Silent Works Andrew from Jamaica also did a Svelte Forms Lib library and produced an Egghead tutorial series on them So check it out CodeChips I think his real name is Ilya Mikhailov created an e-book on Svelte Forms. And that seems to be very nicely done, actually. Because it's hard to do forms right. Pierre B, I think he's on Twitter and GitHub is Pierre B, Pierre Bolver, has his own Forms library. And I think there are just a bunch of them. I don't know. It's, it's good to know these things at hand because the temptation is always to say, I don't need it. And then you start slowly adding requirements and then you're like rebuilding your store and, uh, and the validation. And you're like, okay, like at some point you're, you're just building your own library. Yeah. Happened to too many times to me. It happens to me too. And I was, I was just like, okay, yeah, I am an idiot and I should just use someone else's library. It's, it's, It's that thing though, that like, like you start with just this simple thing and then you, like you said, I don't need a library. Exactly. And then you, and then you add, and it's so simple to do the very basic stuff in Svelte. Yeah. That you feel like you're almost done, but then you add just, just adding validation is pretty, that's a, that's a large extra step from just doing Svelte. I'm sorry. Bind value. Right. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. So I'll just like to tweet in, get people to check it out because there are a lot of solutions out there. And yeah forms you know that how we get data to the internet Yeah So it boring but it boring So I have to unmute myself to laugh. Should I go for my pick then? Yeah. I'm going to pick the Swedish summer. So if you ever decide you want to go to Sweden, I would highly, highly recommend going in the summer or the middle of the winter if you like snow, I guess. And I'm specifically going to pick the combination of gelato and the Swedish summer. And there's this place in Stockholm called Snö, which is Swedish for snow, which is a super nice gelateria that has won several awards for being like a really nice ice cream place. So, yeah, that's my pick. It's very local, but if you're around, just you should visit. I like it. I'm jealous. If you can travel, please send us your pictures. Yeah. Salt Society with your travel pictures. I'm stuck at home, so I can't do anything. Yeah. I mean, especially with your work schedule, it sounds like if you travel, it'll be a night anyway. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, well, that's it for our anniversary episode. Thank you everyone for making it a year Yeah we have a bunch of guests Kev bunch of guests uh kev you been really doing a great job of booking yeah yeah so upcoming guests we have let me see here yeah so next uh next episode we're we're having nick reese on and that's the elder js creator that we talked about before then we're gonna have britney postman the week after that teaching web dev and all sorts of fun stuff that she does. And then the week after that, we're going to have Li Hao back. And I think we're going to talk a lot about his YouTube channel that he's been very diligently uploading content to, which is also a great channel. And somewhere in between here, we'll also have Scott on, Scott Talinsky from Level Up Tuts to talk about his both his new course on SvelteKit as well as just his I guess his conversion or proof of concept thing and then lastly we also have an episode on Routify where we have Jake and Ghost on she doesn't want to tell us her name so Ghost is the name yep that's it so stay tuned and let's see you all next episode. See you. See you next episode. Bye.