 Hello, everyone. Welcome to another episode of Svelte Radio. Today we have another guest for you all, but first, introductions. I'm Kevin. I run Svelte Radio and Svelte School, and I'm involved in the Svelte community in general. I'm Sean. Same here, I guess. I don't run anything. But I guess I've been working on, recently, the Svelte Actions package, trying to have a good set of defaults for Svelte to export so it inspires people to use Actions more. That's me. I'm Anthony. I'm the CTO of Bianc, and I'm also a Svelte maintainer, along with our guest today, which is Ben McCann, who is also a Svelte maintainer. A very, very recent one, in fact. Well, not that recent anymore. It's been a while now. So Ben has come in on the back of a huge amount of PRs. I don't know how he produces them so fast. and he's really pushed the development of spells itself but also sapper significantly forward and yeah what else what else there's a lot to ben he's extremely polite and nice and i really really like that it's quite refreshing to find a person and oh i'll hand it to ben yeah it's great to be here with you all today thanks for for having me on the show um that's how i i get so much done i I don't have a day job right now, so that gives me a little more time. I started a startup a few years ago, and so I'm an entrepreneur, and I'm in between companies right now trying to figure out my next one. And I picked up Svelte to kind of refresh my tech skills. And our startup, we were using Angular, and I don't want to do that again. So I was trying to figure out what's new in the landscape, and I hadn't been coding for a number of years. I was in more of a management role. So I just wanted to kind of get caught up on the things and really enjoyed been using Svelte these past few months. I'm just curious how you first heard about it because in someone in your position, you might just go for React as sort of the most popular framework of the day. Yeah. So, I mean, one of the ideas that I was experimenting with was for a content site where I thought that speed was going to be really important and performance was going to be really important And so I really liked that with Svelte you didn have to download a runtime like you do with React And so, you know, the initial page loads were a lot faster. So that's kind of how I got involved. And then, you know, with Sapper, there were a lot of other really nice performance improvements. And those were some of the first things I started working on when I got involved in Sapper. So, you know, one of the things that we did was we added preload headers. So when you first visit a page, we'll fetch all the assets that you need for that page. So instead of having to wait for if one script depends on another script, instead of having to wait for the first script to run and fetch that second script, the page will automatically fetch both of those at the beginning. And so we kind of crawl your dependency tree and make sure that those are all fetched at the beginning. And then, you know, it's also got CSS code splitting, which is something that, you know, had a few bugs in the past recent releases, getting that all worked out. But I think that's really gotten to a very nice place now where we have, you know, it's always had JavaScript code splitting. And now the CSS is really, I think, a lot easier to manage as well. And so with all that code splitting, you know, it's been a really nice performance benefit of using Sapper. So one thing I want to ask, I meant to mention in the intro that you were an entrepreneur, but also I believe, and I could be wrong here, but I think you're also a VC of sorts. Is that right? Yeah, I've been doing a bunch of investing as an angel investor. and so I've invested in probably about two dozen companies at this point. Wow. Very cool. As far as I know, none of them use Svelte, but I'll spread the word. You've got to push for Svelte. Yeah. Cool. Any successes yet of that bunch? We actually have pretty... One of the first companies we invested in, a pretty interesting company, they're doing water propelled propulsion in space. And they just announced that they're IPOing So they announced that late last year and that should happen sometime Q1 we think Very cool Wow I wonder how that works Yeah That seems crazy It got a lot of nice benefits A lot of the chemicals that are used for propulsion traditionally are very toxic. And so that's probably not the main benefit of doing this, but it's a nice side benefit. So the idea is basically that if you're going to launch a satellite into orbit or something on SpaceX, they kind of drop you into a number of default orbits. But then if you want to get to your own custom orbit, they'll act as a shuttle to get you to your final destination. That's cool. All right, so Cepher is at 0.28 right now. That's not the last version, right? So we've got one more, at least in the works. 0.29 is coming up soon. And obviously there's been a lot of talk about SvelteKit. And so that's where a lot of the development focus is right now. But in the meantime, there's still a lot of PRs that we've been getting for smaller issues in Sapper that we wanted to try to get in and get another release out. Um, so I think, you know, probably the biggest highlight is for all our TypeScript users. Um, we've, we've gotten, I think probably like four or five changes in to Sapper 29 for, um, TypeScript definition improvements, which will be a really nice quality of life improvement for our TypeScript users. Uh, TypeScript supports pretty new within Svelte in general. And so there's a lot of other places in the Svelte ecosystem where we've been making a lot of TypeScript improvements as well. But Sapper is definitely one of them. And then, you know, I think the other place in Sapper 0.29 where we've seen a lot of improvements are in the router. So a lot of fairly minor bug fixes, but things that are just kind of nice usability improvements. There been a couple scroll tracking bug fixes that we gotten And actually seeing those come in kind of was a motivation We ended up rewriting the entire scroll tracking in SvelteKit. And so those bugs are not in SvelteKit. But more importantly, there's a couple of edge cases that Sapper still has. if you like navigate off the site and come back, the scroll might not be exactly where you'd expect it. It works pretty well in Sapper today, but in SvelteKit, I think we've taken care of all the different edge cases that we knew about. So I'm going to be the voice of the people who are less in the weeds. And since we have two people deeply involved in this, could we have a high level, what is the difference between Sapper and SvelteKit? like just you know like a recap because i think it's helpful for listeners yeah so i think the the biggest difference and you know feel free to jump in here anthony too with your thoughts but i think you know the the biggest change in my mind is the developer experience you know svelte kit is built uh on top of snowpack and es build and so you're going to see compile times be a lot faster And that's something that's a problem in larger Zapper projects. You don't notice it necessarily when you start out as a new user with Zapper. But when you start to grow your projects, some of the compile times with Zapper can get to be a bit longer. Our hope is to fix all of those issues and make it a really, really smooth experience with SvelteKit. Yeah, I think I agree with that entirely, that that's probably the biggest benefit. It's definitely the one that I'm looking forward to the most. So for context here, we have some pretty big Sapper applications. And at one point, one of them was taking two minutes to build when you first booted it, just to run into the dev environment, which is obviously really bad for local dev. Reload times were 20 seconds or so, which also kind of sucks. I did actually nail that down recently, very recently, to I was using Svelte feather icons, which is a tree-shakeable library of icons, but there's probably like 400 icons in there. Svelte will still compile every single icon every time you use that whole library. So if you've got other libraries that use it as well or other modules, it's going to compile.

 pile all the icons, which takes a couple of milliseconds, but it builds up. I basically took that library and I did deep imports, as Rich Harris and, in fact, the author suggested. I also then made my own little cut-down version of that library, and it took my build time down to a sixth of its original build time. So it's now 20 seconds to start, and it's a big application. So that dev experience, that alone has made my whole development life a lot easier. SvelteKit, it should be like microseconds, right? should be so tiny to get the application up and running. We've already seen in SvelteKit and Snowpack itself, changes you make reload, they're instant. You almost don't think it's happened because it's so quick. So absolutely, 100%, that is the biggest benefit. I think the second benefit, which is also another place where SvelteKit came from, is so when you build an application separate, everything is kind of treated the same way. You're building a dynamic by application. you can export it as a static site, but you've got those two options, and it's kind of one or the other, right? There's no middle ground. The idea with KIT is that it will build the application in a more optimal way, so KIT will, for you, break out bits that are static and make them as static as possible. It will take bits that are dynamic and make them as dynamic as possible, and it will take out bits that are sort of in the middle and do the most optimal things, so you'll end up with an application that serves itself up in the most optimal way for what your application is, which should make it really, really nice to host and also cheaper to host and also more efficient to run. I think on top of that then, I suppose the other benefit to Kit is the modularity, which we're trying to break things into modules, whereas SAP is kind of a more than one. And then the final thing, I suppose, is the adapters. So the idea being it's serverless first, but not restricted to serverless. So you can host it anywhere you'd like, but it's designed so that you can host it on the serverless platform, which is probably the ideal hosting environment for this very, very easily. The adapter defines your entire deployment layout. So there's a multitude of adapters and you can basically just pick your adapter, run the keyword that you currently adapt, and it will convert your application into something that's suitable for where you want to host it. And I think those are probably the top five benefits. As to how close we are to the project right now, we obviously all close but Rich is the one who currently using it in production It very much of course his project And so I think that when it comes into beta which will hopefully be soon then there'll be some really interesting things that probably we don't even know about yet. Yeah, I've been using SvelteKit today, actually, to build the new SvelteRadio website. It's been great, except for the issue of no documentation. but I mean, that's expected, right? Yeah. It took me a while to figure out that fetch was actually something that came with the load function rather than using a this.fetch thing. I think currently it is. I think that's one of the things that's sort of, what do we do with fetch and load? How's that going to work? That's one of those discussions that kind of goes round and round a lot. I know Ben's been involved in that discussion, actually. Yeah, hopefully we'll have some documentation coming soon. And I actually have drafted a set of documentation just based off the SAP or docs and then updating it. And I'm sure I missed some stuff. So we'll need the community to give it a look and find all the changes that I missed. So I've sent that out to the other maintainers for review. And hopefully, I don't know if we're ready to publish it yet, but at least we're working on docs internally. Yeah, that's great. That's great. It might be an interesting step to publish the docs without publishing the code, just to get feedback before you actually 1.0 the code. Yeah, it might be an interesting... Yeah, we're definitely, I think, going to need some feedback on the docs. I think they're hopefully pretty close, but there's enough of them that I'm sure there are things here and there that we've probably missed. so yeah i mean so so an interesting interesting approach that that would be like a black box approach where you've got the product and you've got the documentation but you've got no access to the source so you only have the documentation to look at to figure out how things work that's actually an interesting technique i don't know whether it would be really frustrating or just you know would be a really good exercise but yeah i guess i guess if you don't have this source code where you have to run all the docs, and that could work. I don't know. That should force the docs to be really good, though, right? Well, yeah, absolutely. Absolutely. They have to be. We could discuss it maybe when our next maintainers meeting is but we can bring that up maybe Yeah I think actually one of the things i really uh most excited about with svelte kit is a maintainer which probably doesn doesn't sound exciting as a user is that um we've now got a configuration file which is like i kind of uh obviously a basic feature but you know we had a lot of different prs in Sapper that are in the queue that depended on adding some new configuration option. And we really wanted to find a way to do this holistically. Like a lot of these different PRs suggested different ways of configuring your project or whatever new option they were adding. And so we didn't want to have half a dozen different ways of enabling any new feature. And so now we've kind of got one standard way of doing that with SvelteKit. And I think that'll unblock a lot of development efforts where, you know, we wanted to come up with a holistic way of doing it before merging all these PRs. And so hopefully a lot of the PRs that are in the SAPR queue, we can revisit with SvelteKit and get those in. And I think in terms of configuration, the original, the holy grail for Rich is no configuration at all, right? but I think he's realized now that's probably not a possible thing because there is people have different use cases and the project is quite widely used now and I think that one of the fallout we saw from not having a config file is that every other project that uses Svelte has a config file and they all use different formats and these different ways of doing things and different namings different variables so we've created this SvelteKit config file and almost to find the format of what Svelte config would look like. It's natural to do that, I guess, but what it means is that you'll see a few other projects around Snowpack being one of them where their config file format for Svelte's actually changed based on the ideas from SvelteKit. So hopefully, yeah, we'll have reached this kind of, we've kind of converged on this final config layout as much as possible, at least anyway. That's very cool. This question actually makes me ask another dumb question, which is SvelteKit seems spiritually much closer to Svelte than Sapper was. Sapper seemed like a different project altogether. It could have been run by a different maintainer. The config file is named svelte right Something like that I think I think right Like it not svelte kit Like this is svelte Like we are we are we you know essentially is the meta framework kind of just like just merging into the framework, the framework itself. I mean, I, I think that they'll, they'll always be separate code bases and like, you should still be able to use svelte without using SvelteKit, but for folks that are getting started, we want to have kind of a blessed path that makes it easy to get up and running. If you look at the Svelte FAQ today, there's a question that says, what routers should I use with Svelte? And there's half a dozen different recommendations in there. And it's, I think, hard as a beginner to know what the differences between all those routers and which one you should use. And in the future, that answer is going to be SvelteKit. And, you know, we want to make sure that there's kind of one way to do development that works really well, that everybody's, you know, put their eyes on and made sure that we've made it a good experience. And so you'll still be able to do all the things you can do with Svelte today and still build your own Svelte project without using SvelteKit, but for folks that just want to get something running without having to put a lot of thought into having how to put all these building blocks together, we want to make that really easy. So this makes me think of an SPA mode. I think that's been something that's been missing in Sapper for forever, I think, right? So is that something that you could do with just one of those adapters in SvelteKit? I don't know if it'd be an adapter or a new option, but it is something that I expect will be coming. We've got a ticket internally to build that. Nice. And I actually had a PR to do that in Sapper. And one of the things that got hung up on was, how do we want to configure this? And so I think that question's been unblocked now. and hopefully that's a feature that you'll see coming. I think one of the problems with Sapper was that people really didn't know how it related to Svelte at all. Like Sean says, it's almost like a different maintainer. It's almost a different project. And so I think one of the ideas of SvelteKit is

 that we bring together it's it's a kit around svelte rather than an application framework that happens to use svelte if that makes sense so it's a series of tooling that allows you to take svelte from a ui framework or ui language or ui library whatever you want to call it into something you can build a full app with um sapper was sapper app builder but it wasn't always clear that that's what it was for and yeah like ben says about the routing and stuff it was confusing it's got its own router can i use that router externally no you can't because it's kind of so cool to SAP because it does SSR and SPA it needs to be baked into the product so yeah so SvelteKit will the idea being it's like an extension of Svelte it's a superset of Svelte it's a thing that sits around Svelte now the caveat to this of course is that um there is still uh a notion of a SvelteKit thing so you have like attributes prefix with SvelteKit things like SAP and NoSQL translate directly to SvelteKit no-scroll or kit notion. I can't recall that actually, Ben. But the no-scroll attribute is prefixed with the kit notion because it's specific to kit and it means nothing outside of that. I've actually been looking at the change log. There's not much in there in the Svelte kit one, but it's fun to see when new versions go out. The Svelte kit change log? Yeah. Where's that? It's in the... It is, yeah. You can find it on... I actually didn't know there was a changelog. I've never seen it. There's nothing in it. Yeah, it might not be updated. Well, I mean, it seems to be updated. I should find it once I can... We're on version 0.next 37 or something right now, I think, and it doesn't get released that often. So it gets a new master branch every, I don't know, I would say six minutes. The latest patch notes are prevent infinite loop when fetching bad URLs inside error responses. And handle assets path when pre-rendering. These are quite recent, I think. Where are you seeing this? Is this like a leak? We checked those in last night I think that PMPM is set up with chain sets and it probably auto the change log based off the commit log. That's what it is. It's unpackaged anyway. It's fun to see, to look at, even though it doesn't make much sense. That makes sense. Yeah, the change log gets checked in. Yeah, fair enough. All right. I've got a couple other sort of beginnery questions. Is the goal sort of one-to-one parity with Sapper or do you think we'll have to lose anything? I know there'll be a migration path, but let's talk about what's the trade-off? Are we not losing anything? Yeah, I think that's been one of the hard things with the development of Sapper is we do still get PRs to Sapper. And, you know, we've been trying to merge as many of those as we can. At the same time that there have been some that have proposed new features. And I think, like, we don't want to be in a situation where people adopt a new feature on Sapper and then it's not present in SvelteKit. So, you know, trying to be really careful that any changes that we make in Sapper we're also making in SvelteKit. and they share a lot of code, but they're also different code bases. And so some of those changes are easy to port and some of them are not. And so, you know, it's been kind of a case-by-case basis to figure out, like, which are ones that we can easily add to both versus, like, which are things that we should just wait for SvelteKit and add them there. Cool. Yeah, I think SAP is in a kind of, like, a maintenance mode, isn't it? It's in a mode where we still support it. We're still obviously interested in fixing bugs and things because people rely on it and at times migrate. But the idea of being a migration path is so smooth that anything new can just go straight into kit. And we have to have major features. That's the goal anyway. The thing I've never been sure, I've never used ESBuild. I've looked at the docs. But we're essentially switching the bundler from either rollup or whatchamacallit, webpack, and then switching to ESBuild. And is that a smooth process Don we lose stuff stuff Like you know whenever I want to use something um in in my in my tool chain like I know I can either pick Webpack or Rollup and it'll probably work. Uh, but not, I have, when it comes to adopting ESBuilder, I have no idea. Yeah. So if you use Zapper today, it's actually invoking your builder for you and it's, it's tweaking the builder in hidden ways too, which it, so like Sapper has its own internal plugins that, um, trying to remember exactly what they do now, but they, you know, I think a lot of the stuff around, like, like they inject your CSS files into your JavaScript files, um, and they do code splitting on your CSS and then they, it pulls out information about your build in order to build the preload headers that are in Sapper. And so we're, we're in kind of this tricky middle ground right now where you can configure your build, but you don't have complete control over it and you're not executing it. And I think that like, there are parts of that, that hopefully are a little better structured in SvelteKit. You know, so like one of the things that people have been asking for for a long time is the ability to do basically what we've called adapters in SvelteKit, where like we've built these adapters to allow you to host on all types of different environments. And so like, you know, we want to allow you to host on an environment that doesn't require a node, for example, or like we want to allow you to export to static pages or for cell or now, or these different hosting platforms. And I think that was kind of tricky to do before. And so there with SvelteKit, there are still parts of the build tooling that are not directly managed by Webpack or Rollup because they're managed by our bundling process. But now we have first-class support for all of these different platforms i think i think also when ben talks about um internal roll-up plugins and internal webpack plugins inside inside sapper um it's true what what what you see in sapper as a as a webpack config or a roll config it looks a lot like a rollup or webpack config but it not really What it is is it a configuration file that one has some SAPR stuff injected into the output. So SAPR tells it where to put its files. But also the whole thing exports things rather than actually run through rollup, it exports things that SAPR then augments, and then that gets pushed into rollup programmatically, right? So it's all kind of an illusion really with sapper it's very very heavily tied to the internals of how it works and i think it's one of those reasons for that um with svelte kit it is es build but actually one of the core concepts of snowpack which is what what es build is running through um snowpack uh defines a no locking strategy so you're not locked into using snowpack when you build a snowpack project therefore um you can remove snowpack and build it where else you want there's no nothing specific there to snowpack and that stays true for svelte kit not that you can rip out snowpack necessarily but because it's quite built in because ssr but what you're getting there is you're getting es build for your local dev environment whilst you're developing but when you pump the build out either side and bundle for production you're using just pure roll up um or webpack wherever else i think i think it's got role support now i don't know if it'll have Webpack support but it will have just pure output via Rollup. And also as another kind of layering direction here, the ESBuild plugin uses the Rollup Svelte plugin so therefore you can actually adapt that because it's still compiling Svelte through Rollup through ESBuild. So you're not really escaping from from bundlers uh in the most common sense rollup is still there in order that you can pull things into your as build and they get converted to javascript and then the javascript uh is what as build is compiling but that's all in depth so when you come to produce a build for production you're using rollup i believe it's a rollup plugin now um so your your final production build is still a rollup build probably even more of a rollup build than what sapper uses right now That's actually really nice. Yeah. Thank you. There were also, I think, in Zapper, sometimes some confusion around, like, do I do things and roll up our webpack or do I do them and spell pre-process? So, you know, if you want to use post-CSS, for example.

 Like there's multiple ways of setting that up and some work better than others. And so, you know, hopefully some of those stories we can make be a little bit clearer with SvelteKit. Yeah, so I think that's one of the things I'm most excited about in SvelteCore is source maps for preprocessors. So Svelte has had source map support from the beginning. But if you wanted to use a preprocessor, then you lost source map support. It was something that just got implemented in one of the recent versions. And there's a number of kinks that we've been working out over the past few weeks. And so, you know, that's been entirely driven by the community. You know, there's a couple of folks, Mila Hu and Dmitraj, that I'm terrible with the usernames. I probably got those slightly off, but there's a lot of issues today where like, if you try to use TypeScript with Svelte, where the source map support just isn't great because TypeScript support with Svelte is so new. I think that you'll see that get fixed in the next couple of releases. So there's going to be the next release of rollup plugin Svelte and the next release of Svelte will both have additional fixes. That supports getting to be fairly good today, but there are places where things are off by a line here and there, which makes it difficult to use. And so that's gotten really quite a bit better over the past weeks, and that's going to be really exciting for a lot of users. That sounds great. I actually had no idea. I always saw in the pre-process code, there actually is a way that you can modify the source map and send it back to Svelte. I had no idea that it didn't work. Yeah, so there is, and so rollup plugin Svelte executes the preprocessor and executes the Svelte compiler, and it needs to hand the source map from the preprocessor to the compiler. And that was like a one line change to make, but it just hadn't been implemented yet because it was really a pretty new feature. And so that was kind of like one of the final pieces that we needed Like we built these features independently and then we just needed to hook them up And so that going to be in the next release of Rollup Plugin Svelte 7.01 or 7.10, I don't know what the version number is going to be, but whatever's after 7. Only programmers debate what comes after 7. so this is like uh there's a lot of overlap here with the language tools it sounds like are you working like closely with with simon and whoever else is working on those um yeah i think that things for this particular feature like they it hasn't really overlapped with language tools a whole lot, but Simon's helped a lot with a lot of the TypeScript improvements. Like in Svelte Core, he's been adding type definitions. And so I think when you combine these different features together, the type definitions and the type definitions that are in Sapper as well and the source map support, the TypeScript story is going to really start to be a first-class story and become a much, much better experience. That's awesome. A lot of people want TypeScript, from what I understand. Yeah. You're not wrong there. Okay, so there's this Svelte loader thing. Is that a webpack thing? Yeah, so I think probably all the maintainers use roll-up, which means that unfortunately the Webpack plugin had gone unloved for a little while. But Webpack 5 recently came out and spurred a bunch of interest from the community in updating that. And so we've recently gotten a good chunk of PRs into that project. And so the next version is going to support Webpack 5. It's going to support Node 14 and it's got a completely rewritten HMR implementation. There was kind of a HMR implementation in there from the Svelte 2 days that never worked with Svelte 3 And so that was always kind of like the top issue in that repo that the readme says there HMR support and there really wasn And so that's going to be a really exciting release for Webpack users, which I think is probably like, I don't know, maybe 30 or 40% of Svelte users. It's a sizable chunk. That's a lot. Yeah, I think it's going to make life a lot better for a lot of people. And so, you know, big, big shout out and thank you to all the folks from the community. Again, that was another thing that was entirely community driven. So Non25 and SmittyVB and Reekso, you know, got a lot of those changes and really drove that whole process. I know no one's real names either. it's pretty funny because those are their discord chat names as well so yeah those are their names as far as I'm concerned sometimes they get our names as well yeah that's right, we're Swix Swix, yeah consistency is good yeah so we have some questions from the community that we asked for so we have one here should people with SAP RAPS panic a lot or just a little? I don't think they should panic at all. Yeah, I mean, there's going to be a fairly easy migration path. We've already migrated the example apps. Externally, those are still on Sapper, but within the SvelteKit repo, those have all been migrated to SvelteKit, and that was a fairly straightforward process. We need to put together a migration guide still, but that's something that we'll do. And actually the real world sample app, which basically completely rewrote because it was never really written in the way that Sapper apps should be rewritten, should be written. So that one was a bit of a larger change just because there was a whole bunch of other improvements that got made there. But like, if you look at the Hacker News sample app, that was pretty straightforward to port. That was a pretty small set of changes. And so there so much of the Svelte code like all the client side Svelte code especially is basically the Sapper code And so so the code that going to be in your project hasn really changed Most of the changes in SvelteKit are all in the development server, and they're on the server side and SvelteKit's internals. And so it's the things that users don't really touch in their projects that are changing the most. Cool. That sounds good. Another question is, so from a user, how can they help out pretty much, help the core team develop these things? yeah i think that what svelte needs more than anything is is people getting involved and helping us review issues and prs there's just a lot of them and it's really hard to keep up with them all um you know and we it's kind of a catch-22 like we want to encourage more people to to get involved so that we have more help with those things. But, you know, it's, it's so hard, uh, keeping up with them all to, to really, uh, get people involved with, with the projects, submitting PRs. And, and so I think it's really the review of those things. That's actually how I ended up becoming a maintainer was I kind of noticed that the Sapper PRQ had grown quite a bit. and I just went through and started leaving comments on all of them unprompted. I wasn't quite sure how that was going to be received, but luckily it was received well. A lot of those PRs have since been checked in and there's still a lot more I know that we need to get to and get in. So we're trying to make it through that backlog. I think another thing is we recently put up an open collective. and so thanks to everybody that's contributed to that you know i don't know that we've had a lot of communication about how we're we're going to use those funds but i think one of the things that we're most interested in is bringing on somebody to help with triage of some of those things and that might not happen immediately but you know as as we grow a bit of a balance that's one of the areas that we're going to be looking in is that is probably that and ways that we can accelerate with Svelte's development.

 I think, yeah, in terms of reviewing PRs, that's also a similar way to how I got in, reviewing issues and figuring out if they were real issues or not issues or whatever else. I think that reviewing PRs is super useful, giving the code a try. The Hub project by GitHub makes it really, really easy to actually just test those PRs out. You check out Svelte, you use Hub to change the PR, and then you just basically run your test project against the PR. So it is quite easy to get set up and then it's just figuring out if it works or not really. So, yeah, it's all stuff that goes to a contributor's guide. But again, it's also something that we haven't really got around to building properly yet. Yeah, I think one of the things we'd really love is to have kind of a guide to the code and a contributor's guide that, you know, But right now we've got the contributor's guide that kind of has some guidelines about how to contribute to the project, but it doesn't really help you get ramped up on the code base. And there's really only like a pretty small handful of people. You know, there's like three or four people that know the code base really well because it is a pretty complex piece of code. And so if anyone wants to take that on, we would love to have a better contributor's guide that kind of describes how the code base is laid out and where the core pieces of functionality are and how they fit together and how they work to help get more people ramped up in the community to being able to contribute. it. I've actually, so a lot of times when I introduce Svelte to people, I actually send people directly to the code base to show like it literally, you know, to prove there's no runtime, you just show the direct instructions. I forget the name of the functions, but it's literally, so most of the functions are just like one liners, especially when you're doing like the DOM mutations. Yeah. I mean, I think that's one way of really getting familiar with the Svelte code base, but also just understandings felt fundamentally. You've inspired me. I want to go check out some PRs. I think maybe a video tutorial or screencast showing off how you would review a PR or do anything more major rather than just typing out issues could be be something Yeah We could put that on the YouTube channel for Svelte Society and just get more eyes to it Might be, it might be an interesting method. But yeah, it sounds like, it sounds like there's a bunch of ways people could support like monetarily PR review and then I guess more documentation on, on the code base quality. Cool. All right. Do we have any other interesting topics we want to talk about before we head on to the picks? There's an interesting one here that's from the Twitter, but it's obviously not directly related to what we asked, but it's, when do you think the first roles as Svelte developers will start to appear? I mean, that's an interesting question because from what I understand, there's actually quite a few roles out there appearing now. I think Decathlon were most recently hiring. I'm not sure what they're hiring for. It could be a new team. It could be the existing site. Because for those who don't know, the European Decathlon site, which is a huge, huge brand in Europe and in the UK, in fact, their new site they rolled out in Europe is actually running Svelte. The one in the UK is running the legacy code base, it looks like. So maybe it's porting the UK one. I'm not sure. But they're absolutely hiring right now. Yeah, they're looking for Svelte developers. there's quite a few jobs in the jobs channel on discord if people want to have a look through some directly related to svelte jobs um i hired two svelte developers you know i hired literally four svelte developers so that's good fun um i'm not hiring at the moment but maybe again in the future a bit of luck um but yeah so there definitely are jobs out there you just have to sort of uh know where to find them yeah i i saw one by uh by like uh one of the largest uh swedish universities looking for a Svelte developer. I think for some sort of like data viz. I'm not sure. Nice. That was interesting. I saw actually a school, I was seeing on Discord today, a school, a school child, 15 year old, has actually said that his school's asked him to learn Svelte as part of a project. Isn't that super interesting? Yeah. I don't, he's like, he's come to Discord with his homework. Like they've told me to do this with Svelte. how do I do it? Is it the guy that has contributed a lot to the Svelte Society website lately, maybe? I don't know. I don think it is because he was saying that you found Svelte very complicated I was like well kind of yeah but also not really But it weird though because if schools are teaching Svelte that awesome It can't get better than that. I guess I should also mention we keep track of notable production usage of Svelte on the Svelte Society Twitter. The typical ones that we always raise are like Spotify, Apple. Ikea. Ikea, yeah. and then I guess the data on the data this angle I guess the official government German government site for vaccinations is also in Svelte we have Square Enix and Disney they had like Kingdom Hearts and their landing page was in Svelte there's like a bunch Alaska Airlines for their booking reservations uses Svelte as well there's just a bunch and these are just like the household names obviously there's a bunch more Schneider Electric And Bianc, of course, they use Svelte. Yeah, that's the name, exactly. But I'm not so much in favor of Svelte jobs as just web developer in general and then just pick the tool that fits you. So I'm not too concerned about having Svelte in the job title. I think the reason I like that concept of Svelte jobs is because if I were to stop doing Bianc and go get a job, I really would want to just carry on using Svelte and I would be looking for a specific Svelte job. I wouldn't be looking for a front-end job necessarily. I've been looking for a Svelte job, just because it's something that I enjoy using every day. In fact, like I said before on the show, I'm sure, it's kind of, I'm a full-stack developer, I could do any part of the stack, and I've always kind of avoided front-end. But actually, Svelte is the one thing that's brought me back into the front-end, thinking I really enjoy working on web UIs again, which is quite a statement, really, because it's still quite difficult. You know, there's still browser compatibility to worry about and all that kind of stuff, you know. so I think it's valuable to have a Svelte specific job and I think that's a good thing that that's being advertised in that way yeah so what's your I shall go first then yeah you should it's your segment so this is where our ratings drop to zero right so code comments are banned I just want to say that all code comments they should be banned I've actually written lint rules in the past to remove them so you can't commit comments to your code base. The reason being if you got code comments in your code it means that your code is violating one of Kent Beck four main rules Kent Beck is very prominent in this sort of stuff but he is absolutely right in that code should show intent And if you're writing comments to show intent, then your code is obviously not showing intent. And for me, that is a direct violation. So for those who don't know Kent Beck, have a look at him on Twitter. He's very, very prominent in software dev, been at it a very long time. A lot of the stuff, if you kind of follow his guidelines, makes a much, much cleaner, much more readable, much more sensible logical code that's easy to maintain. So the priority map, as he does, it has four elements from lowest to highest. The lowest element in his map is fewest element. So that's the fewest component parts to make it a whole. The next two are to no duplication. Obviously, you know, DIY principle, don't repeat yourself. If you've got duplicated code here and there, it's a maintenance headache, it's a testing headache and it could go out to the sink. So remove that into a single place, abstract it and call that. Again, within reason, it's not like a hard and fast rule, it's within reason. Then the second one on that level is reveals intention. Your code should read in that it reveals intent so that it makes sense to a person reading it. An additional downside to comments in this concept is that a comment is not testable. So a comment can go out of date when you write the code. Someone can change that code and not get a comment, there's no test to check that, so therefore the comment becomes invalid. If somebody's relying on that comment, which for comments to have a purpose, they'd have to rely on it, then it means that they're reading something which isn't true and potentially even does the opposite of what the code says. So they're a danger. If one comment is false or wrong, or even misleading, because it's the English language, or whatever language, but mostly English, it can actually give the wrong impression about the code. it can say the wrong things, and then you end up misunderstanding the code and potentially writing bugs. So therefore, my notion here is that code comments are actually bad. And of course, his top element in this map is passes the tests. That's probably the most important of all, no matter anything else, as long as it passes the test, it's good. But back to code comments quickly. I believe that code comments are a code smell. I believe that code comments are a bad thing they're damaging and i genuinely believe that they're they do more harm than good and um that's my controversial that's my i can't speak now that's a very good way controversial opinion i always get flamed on this for twitter i always get flamed non-stop so

 To be super clear, the entire Beyond code base does not have comments. You are correct. Not a single comment. Kind of amazing. Well, it does make you write better code. It does make you write better code. What about Svelte PRs? Would you reject PR over an excessive comment? You probably allow small comments. The Svelte code base goes against a lot of the things that I believe in standards, like linting and things like that. It goes against them. This is Rich's style, and the general maintainer's agreed style is totally fine with me. Comments are the same, right? The notion is that comments are included in that code base, so therefore I'm totally happy with comments being there. So I accept PRs with code comments in because it's not a violation. However, I will admit, too, when I see Rich adding code to the code base, or even Ben adding code to the code base, because there's the comments, I'm like, no! Internally, right? Internally, I'm like, fit. But I'm just like, it's the way. It is how it is. The weird thing about linting and about code style is it actually doesn't matter. What's more important is that everyone uses the same code style. So, therefore, if this is the code style of Svelte code base, then I'm more than happy that we don't spend time byte-shedding about whether you should underscores and variable names or use camel case. I'm much more happy that we should just have a single style. And actually, I'll be honest, I'm actually coming around to underscores and variable names now, which is really not boding well with my team because we've always been against that. But hey, you know. Progress. We actually had someone comment on Twitter that the Svelte code base does have a bunch of underscore stuff and it's quite readable. It's quite readable. It is. It has underscores internally and it uses CamelCase for its external API. Yeah. Sorry, Kev, go ahead. Yeah. So any other unpopular opinions? I have one, a short one, but... Well, I thought that was such a good one, it's hard to follow. Ben, you want to? Yeah, I'll jump in and say, don't use SvelteKit yet. Just use Sapper for now. I know people are really excited to use SvelteKit but you just going to cause yourself more trouble There no documentation for it yet There not really any support for it yet Like the things are still changing And so I know like people are starting new projects and they're like, oh, I don't want to have to migrate. But it's not going to be a painful migration. And it'll be a lot less pain than using a project that we don't really intend for people to use yet. Yeah. Yeah. That's nice. Yeah. It's popular here. Yes. So I have a small unpopular opinion. Maybe it's not unpopular, actually. It's hard to read Tailwind. I started tinkering with Tailwind, and it's actually quite okay. It was better than I thought. But reading it is really, really rough, having the HTML full with classes. so your opinion is that it's hard to read tailwind yeah I guess so that is the burning fire pitchforks pitchforks adorn it's not so much that it's hard to read it's more like it's just like a jumble of everything in the html and I get confused I'll probably learn I'm no tailwind fan I probably can't agree with you it's class overload but um but yeah i can see that definitely causing some controversy it is nice though like for this one project i've tried it on ben what's your take on tailwind i haven't used it yet you probably have an opinion though you probably looked at it i haven't yet uh i'm trying to bait you you didn't take the bait you didn't take the bait I won't comment on Tailwind stuff, but I can jump in with the last unpopular opinion, which is that serverless is killing static sites. And I just realized this, that there's really no more reason to have a traditional static site generator that pre-generates thousands and thousands of pages. We used to benchmark Zapper on how long does it take to do 30,000 pages? It doesn't matter anymore. And I realized this partially because of SwellKit, partially because of Remix in the React ecosystem and Next Everyone is just moving towards serverless as the rendering unit And I think that why The reason we had static site generators churn out so many sites was because compute was centralized and we needed to run the build process and then distribute it on a CDN. And that model worked. But now that basically every hosting platform has serverless and it's super easy to spin up, then we can just run the page generation on demand and cache it. And there's no need for a static site generator anymore. So that's my opinion. Yeah, I think I kind of agree with that opinion because obviously generating on the fly is effectively static site generation. You're generating something into a cache. You're just not doing it at the time of inception. you're doing it kind of on request for the first request that makes sense, if you've got a sensible caching strategy and a way to clear that cache then yeah, I think that's a great idea I don't know how profound this is, but obviously I used to use Gatsby a lot, and Gatsby is like if this insight is true, then Gatsby is kind of dead so is like every other static site generator it's fine to still use it because it's like a tried and tested code base. But just the experience of updating a page and not having to wait a billion minutes for it to rebuild, it makes it a superior paradigm already. Absolutely. All right, picks. What do you have? Picks. We got to go fast now. Right, so my pick is the Tadoo Smart Heating System. So I've been, when I asked how my boiler fitted, I asked the fitter to fit me this like the cheapest possible wireless receiver because i was going to get smart heating and then i didn't this is such a random pick it's not that random it's pretty pretty good i think but anyway i've had more random surely no so i was gonna get fitted uh i never did anything about it and then one day this cheap smart heating system this this cheap sorry this cheap wireless heating system which i will name sailors don't ever buy in their crap um it actually just broke just just stopped working one day and I was sat in the middle of December in England in the cold, which is like one degree or less Celsius So I got my friend had Tado I looked it up It is the most amazing beautiful onboarding system i you know products come with a how to set product up and usually it it varying levels of how good it is and this product is literally you as a layperson going and adapting opening your boiler and fiddling with the wiring right and yet they manage to talk you through it on a smartphone step by step every single detail what's important what was occurred what what you should label everything i did the whole thing in like 12 minutes or something end to end i took my boiler apart for the first time ever i took all the circuits out my boiler i started unscrewing things and rewiring it and god knows what i was doing crazy stuff right and it's totally fine because tado is is so watertight and set up you tell it what boiler you've got it even shows you picture of your entire setup and i've bought a pretty random setup specific boiler specific water heater specific wireless transponder that which some some naff silas stainless silas product over it is it had pictures of all of it and how to remove it how to fit their stuff fantastic so if the product alone is great it's wonderful it's great smart heating but the setup is just it's something that people should aspire to is how to onboard people onto a product So my pick is Tado Smart Heating. Wow. Well done. Ben? That's hard to follow up. I'd say my pick is Narcos Mexico. I know everybody's been watching Tiger King and that chess one. Queen's Gambit. Yeah, Queen's Gambit. I'm all about Narcos Mexico. So I watched the original Narcos. Is it just like with different actors? Yeah, it's the same thing. it's about the Mexican cartels this sounds great I need to watch this the first Narcos is really good it is sounds good so my pick is something called Kitty it's a terminal replacement pretty nice you can customize it that's pretty much it as in K-I-T-T-Y right? Yeah, like a small cat. It's actually very nice. It's GPU rendered, which is better than those electron thingies. It's just Wii for terminal, right? Yeah. Need to render some stuff. Yeah.

 I guess I'll pick Audacity. I don't know if you guys have messed around with it, but it's open source audio editing software. And it's surprisingly powerful. I've never really, I've used it before to edit minor clips, but then I took some time over the weekend to learn how to set levels and like mix clips together and like post process like pops and stuff like that. It's really powerful and it's open source and it's very performant and just an amazing piece of, I guess, open source collaboration. And I don't know the history behind this, but I'm curious to learn more. But it's just really good software to use. In other news, Sean will be our new editor of the podcast, right? All right. It is a lot of work. Yeah, it is. So that's all the picks then. and that's it for this time thanks Ben for coming on and talking about Sapper and Svelkit thank you Ben thanks for having me alright we'll talk to you guys next episode bye bye