 Thank you. Hello, Svelte Summit. My name is Bert Banks, and I'm a lead developer at Ashley Furniture. If you are watching this video, then let me say, congratulations! You are thinking about or currently in the process of migrating a massive application to Svelte and SvelteKit. Soon you will be using one of the most loved frameworks on GitHub as your JavaScript framework of choice. Let me tell you though that my team's success with Svelte didn't happen immediately because the npm package takes seven seconds to download. Yes, my team's journey with Svelte hasn't been an easy one, but it's been well worth it. share a few our journey and some of the tricks we learned along the way and maybe some of the bugs a lot of the bugs from humble beginnings now you may think to yourself that because we went to Svelte that we would see success immediately in this project And you be right Thanks to Svelte's awesome dev tooling with things like Vite, Svelte Preprocess, and Svelte Adder, and also its superb tutorial, we were able to get a prototype running quickly, which got us a ton of support from the business and allowed us to continue. Yes, we were finally moving away from that old jQuery, and I'm just saying much better, more performant, and easy to work with. and with a few taps on the keyboard we had a whole new project underway our code base today to keep up with today's demands on modern web applications you need to make sure that no expense is spared on using the latest technology this right here is our typescript of jas docs it makes maintaining your code look a thousand times easier for free and um oh these are tailwind styles you can add really easily svelte adder as you can see here and it just makes maintaining styles across a huge code base like super easy oh and these are the playwright tests these come standard with salt and they're awesome and lastly can't go wrong a storybook it makes reusing components a thousand times easier now i know all this modernization would seem like it'd be confusing but one of the One of the great things about Svelte is that it makes integrating with these new technologies extremely easy. I think it's one of the best things about Svelte. So for this next section, I'm going to slow things down and teach you how to teach other people Svelte. Training Now you may be wondering why during this talk I am emphasizing Svelte ease of use well the reason that is is because when you doing these massive migrations you need buying from the developers as well as the business and developers tend to pick things they find easy or something they're familiar with if you go Svelte for your migration it's inevitable that you will have to teach a lot of devs felt and here's some of my tips as someone who's done that a lot of time first thing I do and train new people is make everyone complete the whole Svelte tutorial a lot of people try to speedrun it but there's important stuff at the end like animations and actions that you don't want to miss now the tutorials probably the best series out there for jazz frameworks but it doesn't magically make you an amazing coder overnight with my project we got allowed code up and running quickly but we're not in the phase of scaling out and looked like this. Yeah, that's not good. Now, when you're coding for small projects, it's okay to be a little loosey-goosey with the rules. When you're coding an enterprise application, thousands of people could potentially touch your code. And to keep it maintainable, you need some coding standard. Here are some of my suggestions that my team found the most successful. Number one is just standardize where things in Svelte go. I was pretty open about where you put your variables, but maintaining things is giving me a nightmare if you have to go on a scavenger hunt every time you're in someone else's component. My team decided on imports, fonts, props, let, functions, and reactive statements, with a special case for the create event dispatcher always being right after the imports but your answer may be different Now I know this applies to all JS frameworks but get all your developers on the same page on the naming conventions of your props They make your code way more reusable and save your sanity. Two of my pet peeves are when people rename a prop that is ubiquitous in standard browser components like this link URL prop here, or when someone adds the name of the component to a prop for no reason. We're in the product component, we know it's product text. This isn't all of them in and we're still refining them as we go, these patterns have handed upping our philosophy in Svelte immensely. One quick note, it's a personal philosophy of mine, is that people are following patterns that might be too complicated or might not just be good. Patterns should be obvious and easy to follow. Lastly, I'd like to do a rundown on SvelteKit. It's an insanely awesome web framework that abstracts a lot of insanely hard concepts such as SSR and Clydeside routing. One thing I'd warn though, that it's still in beta, but it's not like anyone's hiding this fact. Our main problem with FeltKit is that abstracting these hard concepts can be a blessing and a curse. If you have no one on your team who is aware of how modern web practices work, you could run into some problems. I knew we had a problem when one of the devs put his FeltKit endpoint and told me he wasn't full staff. Make sure people brush up on these concepts and share the knowledge. My team organized weekly powwows to share some of the knowledge love and it helped us out immensely, and we all became experts in modern web practices quickly. Thank you for having me Svelte Summit to do a quick overview of my project and some of our lessons learned. Hopefully one of you guys can take something away when you're migrating one of your projects. I'm really excited to see where Svelte and SvelteKit have to go. But now for us, it's the biggest part of one of these projects.