 Welcome to Stealth Radio. Vercel is the platform for front-end developers, providing the speed and reliability innovators need to create at the moment of inspiration. Founded by the creators of Next.js, Vercel has zero configuration support for 35-plus front-end frameworks, including SvelteKit. We enable the world's largest brands, like Under Armour, eBay, and Nintendo, to iterate faster and create quality software. Try out Vercel today to experience the easiest way to use Svelte. Hey, it's another episode of Svelte Radio. We're back. We've got the whole crew assembled this time, and we have a guest, So it's a full house on Svelte Radio today. Today we have Bert with us from Ashley Furniture Store, I think it's called, right? What up? Hey. And as always, the rest of the crew, Anthony, Sean, Brittany, what have you guys been up to lately? Trying to be as lazy as possible. Having Christmas. Yeah. Christmas, yeah. It's January, you're still having Christmas. so January our Christmas rolls into New Year's what about you Bert how's how's Christmas been for you uh it was super busy I went to Chicago last week and then I went to Milwaukee and then I'm back here at work so uh it was pretty eventful yeah so you're based in in Florida is that yeah so I'm based in Tampa Florida uh in uh Ybor City It's like the cigar city. I actually love it here. It's kind of cool. There's like chickens that run across the street and stuff. It's a pretty crazy place in Tampa, but I love it. Right. Yeah. Yeah. That sounds like Hawaii. Hawaii has chickens everywhere. My mom visited and she's like, I thought I was in Cuba for like a second. Yeah it the only thing I know about Florida other than that Miami is in Florida is the infamous Florida man Oh yeah Just like a meme I want to become the Florida man programmer Why am I not familiar with this? You have not heard about Florida man? I might know it after I see it, but it's not coming to mind. So it's this meme kind of, I guess, where all the crazy shit happens in Florida. and the headlines always starts with Florida man does X. Oh, okay. So it's just like Florida man. Maybe a good working title for this podcast, Florida man uses felt. That is actually very good. That is great. Yeah. So we were originally going to go with building furniture, but that's much better. Florida man uses the felt. That's perfect. It reminds me of those Onion articles, like Arya Man does something. Yeah. What I've heard, actually, the reason that there's so many Florida Man headlines. One, yeah, Florida does tend to attract some pretty wild characters. But also, apparently, Florida just was one of the earliest to digitize their mugshot records and their arrest records. So when it was a slow news day, journalists could just go online and look for news articles. And usually it would come from Florida. And usually there'd be something interesting that they could kind of throw up. So, yeah, Bert, you're nodding. Do you know about this? Yeah, I know about that. Yeah, and it's also the laws, too. It's like it's very open. The arrest records are like total public domain. Anyone can use them. I will say, too, though, is like so I moved here from Wisconsin. And like when I got here, I felt like I was getting like just a tad crazier. it's something about it like always being summer here there's like no season change at all and it's just like like this is a little bit weird i don't know how to explain it just does that mean you have like a warm christmas um well it was cold i think he's yeah i mean this was like the first christmas where i did have to turn on the heat though So, yeah, it's usually, it's not like warm or like hot, but it's not cold usually. That's crazy. You have maybe three seasons, right? There like a summer is like just hot and rainy and muggy Yeah I say it just like hot and humid and then not as humid hot Not as humid Yeah. It's just like humid or very humid. All right. So it sounds like I wouldn't really enjoy it in Florida. Other than the weather, I suppose. But I guess that's part of the humidity. I don't know. That is part of the attraction of living in Florida. Yes. Yeah. yeah what about the oranges that's a good enough about florida yes yeah sorry what oranges florida's or the oranges it's the orange state like florida famous for oranges yes today i learned i i love that i know about florida man but not that oranges are apparently all right okay would you also want to know that uh okay different point no no go ahead go ahead Oranges are responsible for securities laws for determining whether something or not is a security that originated with oranges in Florida. So are oranges a commodity then? It's like Mad Max, we trade them. An export. Yeah. It was commodity, but I don't know. The Howie test is the thing you want to look up. And somehow it's relevant to NFTs and crypto. So that's, it's a very strange origin when it comes from Florida. Yeah. Well, that's nice. That reminded me that the Orange Bowl was last weekend in football. And I know no one on this podcast probably cares about football, but it was the Orange Bowl in Miami, Florida. And there were two orange teams playing in the Orange Bowl. So it was the orangest Orange Bowl of all time. So I have a fun fact about me, like that's akin to football. if you guys don't mind me sharing. Absolutely. Go ahead. So I'm from Green Bay, Wisconsin. I'll just go in my intro. I'm Bert. I'm a lead developer, Ashley Furniture, and I'm from Green Bay, Wisconsin. And my grandfather was actually the defensive coordinator in the first Super Bowl. Oh, my gosh. And so I'm kind of like Wisconsin royalty in that way. That's a big deal. My brother has like, yeah. like my family has like all this like memorabilia from the Super Bowl stuff like that and it was funny my mom was like moving to Florida she like moved like a few weeks ago she like oh do you want this like signed bart star jersey oh do you want like the sign air i was just like we got so much of it but yeah that kind of my family legacy it pretty cool yeah yeah was that uh phil bankson were they in the yep yep was the packers yeah that's cool yep i wish i knew more about american football it was funny when i was in svelte summit me and penguin when we were on the train back we were talking about soccer and like the difference between like football and soccer it was pretty fun yeah here we would say i don't know the difference i don't know yeah i'm yeah i'm glad that kev said american football because i don't understand well i don't understand any football or soccer or anything but yeah yeah i was gonna say football is a totally different thing. So that was like my middle school fun fact. Is it similar to rugby? I never really had you stand up. Yeah, it's pretty close. I mean, yeah. Assuming that rugby is what we think is rugby, I feel like American football is more akin to rugby. And then you don't want to bring in Australian football. Oh, yeah. Aussie rules, right? Aussie rules. Canadian football too, right? What is happening? Is this a football Florida football? We have just diverged. Yeah. I don't have a good enough name for all the things on this podcast right now. I don't have a grouping name. Maybe we should actually talk about Svelte, you know? So, Bert, you're a Svelte man. I am a Svelte man. I'm a Florida Svelte man. So what's your story? So basically, I went to college in Wisconsin. I got a degree in computer science and then I was just kind of like, I need to get out of Wisconsin. I want to get somewhere hotter. And I moved to Florida and yeah, I just started working. Like I originally wanted to be a video game developer. And then when I was in college, I took like a graphic design course that made you make a website and I got like super into it. And then my first job out of college was as, as a web dev. I was working at like some small logistics company and I, um, I like somehow I made I made my career off of converting old stacks to new stacks. So my first job, I converted their entire website to a view SPA spa.

 After that was all done, I learned a lot. Well, I thought I learned a lot. And one of my friends here was like, hey, you should come to Ashley Furniture. I think you'd be good at it. We're doing a really similar project. And to me, I'm like, this is cool. Now I've learned all my mistakes. I can come over and I'm going to make no mistakes this time. That's usually how it goes, right? And honestly, this project I've worked on with Ashley, it's been awesome. I've learned so much because it's so cool to get opportunity like that where you're like, all right, now I can do it right. And then you learn even more. So when I kind of got in, I like, you know, I wasn't really in charge of this project they were doing. So I kind of had like prove myself, kind of like get going with it. And so one of the mistakes I knew for my first time converting over is like when you do a migration, like a lot of newer devs who are new to that kind of like job or doing that, they'll be like, all right, new thing. Like I want this new technology, this new technology, this new technology, this new technology, and I'll automatically fix everything. Right? Like it's not even like I've developed because I'm using this new technology. But like what you find is like you have to teach everyone that. And like there's a lot of that going on. But I'll admit I was kind of a Svelte hater at first. Oh, wow, really? Yeah. So what were you into before Svelte? I loved Vue. I really did love Vue. So that would be Vue 2, right? Yeah, Vue 2. And I did not, the whole Vue 3 thing was kind of annoying. Before you got the compilation API? Is that what came in Vue 3? Yeah, the Vue 3 Vue thing was kind of annoying because especially doing a project like that, I just taught my whole team Vue 2, right? I took a lot of risk doing that. And then all of a sudden you're like, forget all that. The API changed. I kind of get the view. Yeah, I kind of get the view thing, the view to Svelte thing, because when I saw the plans for Svelte 3, I was like, whoa, hang on. I like the kind of object export thing, and that's pretty neat and encapsulated. And I'll say that. So I got in, and it's like you're just like, why are you guys using this new framework, right? You don't have all this stuff. Use Reactor View. I kind of went to that default thing. But then I started seeing my team use Svelte, and I started using it. I was like this is sick Like this is the stuff you can do is insane Like it was super easy And it like I had a team of mostly junior developers and they were doing stuff that would take two years of React experience And so I was like, alright, we're keeping that. So that's how I kind of got into Svelte and I still really love Svelte. It's super cool. People probably heard me talk about that a lot. It's probably what this podcast is about. But yeah, that's my Svelte story. Yep. That's pretty neat. Thanks, Florida, man. So I don't even know what Ashley Furniture does. What is Ashley? Is it an e-commerce thing? So Ashley Furniture. It's IKEA in America. Gotcha. So our fun fact is we're the world's largest manufacturer of furniture. So basically how this project came about is we're a furniture manufacturer first and kind of our e-commerce side of our business was kind of like, you know, it was kind of like a side project. But then when COVID happened, like a lot of businesses, they're like, oh, wow, this e-commerce side's pretty good. Let's invest a lot in that side. And that's why like our project of like kind of revitalizing the whole e-commerce side is kind of our main thing now. So hang on, they're bigger than Ikea? Yes, I'm pretty sure. yeah they're a pretty big furniture company that's impressive and and that's without e-commerce they're bigger than ikea sorry kev i know this hurts i know this hurts you to the core kev but you've got to go there i mean well yeah i was so scared when i get like mugged or something you would you would probably like a few like if you asked a random person here if they knew what ashley furniture is like they would just stare with you. Yeah. It's not that big in Europe. It's pretty big in America and Asia. It's unknown in the UK. No one's ever mentioned it or said it or anything. It's crazy. It's interesting, though, that they're big in the US and Asia, but not in Europe. You'd think they'd try to expand to Europe? I think we are. I can't really speak for a higher-level business plan. I'm just on the website. But this is an interesting thing, though, because Ikea is probably a competitor. They also use felt. So, or like furniture stores, like just jumping on this felt train Yeah I don know what up We taking over industry by industry right We going from data viz to furniture That's the path. Yeah. So this is like one thing I kind of learned at this job too is like if you look at a lot of furniture sites too, it's like a lot of them, like the e-commerce offering's not that good too. And that's why we've been kind of like hammering on it because it's, I mean, that's why I kind of like this job is like this is a huge opportunity to make a really cool website that not a lot of people have done before. Yep. So that's a question that I have. Are you using Svelte or SvelteKit, and how are you building these websites? How are you rendering them? What kind? Because you said you first did a view spa website, so how are you using Svelte for Ashley? That's a very good question, and I'll say very complicatedly. basically how the project kind of started is we were going to do like a full conversion of the site and that's another mistake i'd call out anytime you do those projects never do that like always just kind of like divide and conquer ship a thesis like approach so we kind of like a few months ago we're kind of like oh let's step back and let's kind of take it piece by piece so it's it's a lot of moving parts so right now if you go to like the ashley furniture homepage It's actually all Svelte where I built like a V config that builds everything to web components. Right. So that was kind of our way because the code base is kind of a mess right now. There's a lot of things that is kind of our way of like getting some Svelte in there and like not having to affect anything else, not having to affect things in it. We're also like working on like SvelteKit instances where our CDN on like certain links will point to a SvelteKit server. and that's kind of how we're tackling it now. I also, in our vconfig, we had it so you could have client-side routing for things like dialogues, modals, and tooltips, stuff like that. And that's in my experience, how you hit this is you want to move to a new stack. It's just like, let's take one little thing and just divide and conquer and take every little piece and it's like, soon enough you'll just find it like, oh, we can just replace the whole thing. So do you have a micro frontends or a microsites approach? It sounds like microsites. Yes, microsites. And I will admit that might be an offensive thought. Where each round I am a micro frontends hater Ooh say more I think there are a lot of those out there Yeah I mean it can get convoluted but when you said web components so your homepage is just one page that's using web components, and you're compiling the Svelte to the web components? Yep. It's pretty complicated, actually. Yeah, I would say it's not an ideal state right now, right? And that's when you're doing these kind of conversions, I always say you shouldn't have like an in-between state that's terrible, that's unworkable, because sometimes you might just end up with that. But even now, it's just kind of it's not ideal, but like we're getting there. And I mean, we have like a new footer in there that's completely svelte. Like all the homepage ads are svelte. And it's it's pretty cool. And it's just we're still working on there. Still have improvement. We're still like teaching the team. But it's it's cool stuff. and we kind of hit that point where it's like, when you get there, it's like, all right, I have to build the V config that builds up. I have to test that. I have to get that in there. And then finally we have Svelte in. Now we finally hit that point where it's like we're getting Svelte in there just constantly and just hammering it out. It must be nice to convert stuff. So I guess that happens a lot. You convert bit by bit and then ship it. Can you see a marked improvement in lines of code, like the complexity of everything? Oh, yes. Oh, yes, yes. So the site now is most of the stack is jQuery. Yeah, it's a jQuery. It's pretty bad. So just going back to what you said about micro frontends versus micro sites, micro frontends. I understand that there's different views on what a micro front end is. And actually one of them, which is the one that we use, is a lot like micro sites because it's just multiple apps that join together kind of thing. And to me, I would argue that true micro front end is like a micro site because I always kind of put it like this is like, you know, a microservice and API that serves up like JSON or data, right? It doesn't serve up parts of that data. I mean, sometimes it does, but like, you know, like you get like a full JSON file, right? And like HTML server serves a whole HTML file, not like a half of one, stuff like that. Yeah, yeah. So yeah, so essentially like it's...

 Because you can also do like where you render like one unit of this site, one sidebar renders from one entire service. And I think that that in theory sounds nice and isolated, but actually sounds like a nightmare to actually make it happen. That's what we did at Granger. And so that was like our debate when I got here too. We had like our shell in Svelte and SvelteKit. And then we had like, there would be a React component in certain parts. Then there would be like jQuery, Hybris, like stuff on the page still. And it was very convoluted and hard to deal with. Yeah. So at my job, when I first got in, it was like a huge debate on whether we should do micro front ends or microsites or just like a one monolith Svelte kit. And I actually wrote up like a pretty cool like compiler that was like an API that would like compile your Svelte component for SSR, would SSR it, and then it would give you like the manifest so you could have like the hydration bundle for it. and it's like all those kind of things like you do it you're like okay that's that's pretty cool that's like a cool little test but it's like i do not want to put that in production like that needs so much more work and i was kind of telling the guys that i'm like just think about svelte kit that's taken a lot of work to get out there right what we're doing is pretty similar to that and to get to that level we're gonna do need to do a similar amount of work right so i wanted to go back yeah i mean you mentioned sorry no go ahead anthony i was just gonna agree basically saying yeah it takes a lot of effort and i think that the dx is actually pretty important obviously the user's experience is really important but the dx is actually equally as valuable but the developer i mean that's to work and you can't deliver that's always like one of my developer it's like one of my like you know developer tips thing i always say never write your own framework unless it's open source. Like if you're going to write a framework, make it open source. Because at my first job, I kind of accidentally did that. I wrote like an insane webpack config to do all this weird compiling. And what happened was no one understood it. No one helped me out with it. And basically all my job was just maintaining that one thing. And I hated it. It was terrible. It's good. It's a lesson. It's a lesson that you learn. You learn once, right? Yep. Leave it to someone else. Yeah. Or at least be like being a group that helps and works on it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So I've always said that the developer experience leads to better user experience too. So if you have a better developer experience I think that it can help create those better user experiences It gives you more time to focus on that Yeah that probably very true Yeah they get future stuff Yeah. No, I'm huge on the DX thing too. I mean, yeah, I think what a lot of devs kind of forget is when they're doing stuff like that, they're kind of like, oh, everyone will understand this immediately. So I learned my first time, I made that whole framework. I was like, it's so easy. You can have a view. And then we just basically went back to coding the same stuff we were before, but in a flavor of Vue. And I kind of sat there. I was like, wow, I should have just made this way easier to understand. And then people could have focused on, you know, the important things like code quality, stuff like that. They're too busy on getting it set up, dealing with like certain problems. So, yeah, that's I'm huge on DX. And yeah. Yeah, it kind of feels like everyone in the Svelte community is really trying to push DX as a thing. And it's because we've experienced a very nice framework that we'd like to work with, right? Yeah. So we want to push that even further if we can. So you mentioned earlier you did some kind of routing for modals and stuff? Yeah. Yeah. So I think that's one of those things that you're almost always going to need those in a website. So to me, I think SvelteKit should implement a solution for modals that also work server-side rendered. I'm not sure how that would look, but it would be very nice. You want Svelte to have a component library? No, I want Svelte to handle modal routing, I guess, is what I'm saying. So you can do that manually. You can do it right now. It's just like, yeah, you have to use a bunch of layouts and like, what's it called? Like the spread parameter thing. Like it gets very hairy very quickly, especially if you have to juggle multiple modals. like if you have one modal and then that opens another modal or whatever. So that's one of those things that I think could be a lot better in general in web dev probably because I don't think there are actually frameworks that handle it properly. I think it's one of the major bugbears for me that I don like modals as a whole I find them to be generally a bad experience especially when you got an SBA because you can change pages fast you can fire up a modal There not really a point They feel like a hangover from server rendered apps where you need to load a new view without actually changing page Having said that, sometimes they do provide a good experience, such as login where you don't want the user to feel like they've left the page and they just see this box where they log in and then everything's all authenticated. but the thing that i found interesting about that is that the web now has its own native component for modals which doesn't solve any of the problems with making modals anyway but at least it's native and it means it works over side and it also means that i think it works over side but it essentially means that you can render it you can skin it have you want and you can have this real like a real modal component which is what we use now yeah but rooting i hadn't thought about because i don't tend to use it for rooting but it's an interesting one yeah Yeah, I implemented like a very, very bare bones thing for like the starter kit that I was working on a while back. And it's just like it's very messy. And it's something that you'd want built into the framework to make the server side component work properly, I guess. I think it's a cool idea. I agree with you, Kev. I also agree with Anthony. Like, I really, like, think it'd be cool if you could write it. But, like, my whole thing is, like, if a modal is more than a yes and a no and, like, a little brief text, like, you need a page, not a modal. I think nowadays if, like, CSR and stuff like that, like, it's so quick. Like, you don't need a modal anymore. It's just go to the page. Like, I had the same thing. Actually, we had, like, a little quick view modal to, like, show the product page from the, like, product. I'm saying a bunch of industry terms. Sorry, like the PLP. So like a product listing page. And it was like a little quick for you to bring up that same thing as a PDP. And I was like, just when they click it, take on the PDP. It's actually quicker. Like especially as FaultKit. Yeah. It's also tough because we use file system routing. Yeah. So that's probably why it is kind of rough to make it work on the server. If that makes sense. Yeah. So, yeah. I kind of agree with you as well. You wouldn't want to put massive functionality in a modal, but it's nice for quickly entering new data or whatever. I don't know. I'm trying to think of what a good use case for a modal is, like a confirmation box. I can think of a good one anymore The only one I like is login That the only one I like because it sometimes good when a user is browsing your site anonymously and they want to switch to be authenticated in their account and stuff but you need to be logged in you don't want to really change the page and say you've lost your you're not going to lose their context but it might feel like they've lost their context yeah yeah so it's any time you don't want the user to lose the context of where they are or the state of where they are I guess so maybe you're in I don't know. Maybe you want to enter a new product into a list or something and you have a bunch of other things open. I don't know. One of the things I always get concerned about on Modals too is accessibility. How do I tell the user we're going to put something in front of them? It seems pretty straightforward, but I've done them before. The ARIA rules for them are not straightforward at all. There's a ton of different semantic tags and stuff. and I always go like, what do they recommend here? Because I made a modal the other day and I thought you do like the Aria has pop-up, but apparently it didn't for this one. And I was like, okay, but why? It's very convoluted. That's why I always get concerned about it. Yeah. It's one of the hardest ones to get right. Yeah. A lot of foot guns. Whenever this topic comes up, I always share a gist from Ryan Florence. He wrote this, I think, seven years ago. on why models are hard. And so if anyone's interested in routing and models, check out the show notes. I'm definitely going to check that out. Ryan Florence is the creator of React Router and now Remix. And big into accessibility. But yeah, I don't think it's not just ARIA labels because that's mostly for screen reader stuff. Yeah. But apparently also like focus trapping. Yep. Yeah. I always mess that up. Yeah. because I know you're supposed to like when you open a modal you're supposed to like focus like the first like interactable element on it I'm pretty sure correct me if I'm wrong and I always mess that up and then also when you close the modal it needs to go back to where you started yeah to the previous one so you need some kind of like focus trap history store of some kind that just like sets the correct where I mostly mess up too is you're not supposed to be able to focus the things behind it. Right. It's hard. Yeah. Front end is hard. I think there have been new developments in the web platform

 where you can just kind of declare that it's a modal and then it prevents everything else from being focused on while the modal is active. That's nice. Is that the dialogue element? Dialogue element. That's what it is. Yeah. The native dialogue component or element, HTML element, yeah. Yeah, so as I was talking about before, when I was saying you could wrap something, you can wrap the dialogue element and it basically replaces all needs to have any sort of modal library. but it has that flag attribute where you can set it to be an actual modal and it'll block out the background and stuff. Yeah. Okay. So I clearly haven't used it but I've read about it. It's like weird. I've seen it. I tried to use it and it just, I don't know, maybe it just didn't go my way. I know the documentation's just not that up to date for it yet either. Yeah. If you inquire on the Beyonce site that uses our modal which is a dialog element. It works pretty well. it's it's also a pretty new feature as well like the i think it only recently got what's the support like i think i think it recently got like a full support it's yeah it's green across the board yeah okay good yeah but then there are like features of the dialogue element as well that i'm not entirely sure if it's no it looks like it's all supported no that's nice before we continue with the episode, here's a word from our sponsor, Vercel. Vercel is the platform for front-end developers, providing the speed and reliability innovators need to create at the moment of inspiration. Founded by the creators of Next.js, Vercel has zero configuration support for 35 plus front-end frameworks, including SvelteKit. We enable the world's largest brands like Under Armour, eBay, and Nintendo to iterate faster and create quality software. Try out Vercel today to experience the easiest way to use Svelte. Well, I always mess up too when you have like a nav bar, when you have like a menu and it opens to the right. Like I always go like, do I make that a dialogue? Is that technically a modal? Because it's in front, right? And if you hit the inside, it closes. Yeah. It's like a lot of situations like that. It's almost like everything is getting shoehorned into the web platform that was just originally made to display text and maybe a few images Kind of funny I mean I think that a good thing I will say that once you get working it so satisfying Like we were working on like a mattress quiz at Ashley and I have it as like you like step through it and each one focuses like the first element and it like goes through and then you can add the answers. Like it's oof. And that's, I mean, that's one of the things I like about SvelteKit, like doing stuff like that. So easy. Yeah. It's very, very satisfying when you get things like autofocus and multi-step forums and all that cool jazz wired up correctly. If you're interested in those components too and things that are using native HTML elements and being accessible, OpenUI is a project that's creating open source components that can be used across the web and they have a dialogue also. Oh, yeah. Nice. So, I mean, I'm going to recommend, I always love the accessibility guidelines. They have brand new ones and I like how they kind of switch it up from a more legal kind of like, here's what it needs, to a recipe book where it's like, here's how you make an accessible modal, here's how you make an accessible tabs component. I've been using that, and that's been pretty helpful for me in my accessibility learning journey. So is that the accessibilityproject.com? Yeah, I think it's... Here, I'll look it up real quick. No stress. Let's see, let's see. yeah so this turned into a discussion about modals and accessibility which is always fun oh i was like gonna dive in when he started talking about the different things on the site and all the components i'm like do we have a design system can we like expand on like how you're doing i could just talk about this for hours yeah yeah well i remember one of the britney one of the podcasts i was listening to you talk about spell of storybook and i was sitting there in my car I listen to it, I'm like, yeah, I know the problems of that. Yeah. Yeah. They're getting more support, but it's all community driven. Yeah. It's gotten a lot better. Yeah. Storybook is doing some kind of refactor. So they actually are adopting Vite, which was the main holdup, I think. Yep. Because I didn't want to maintain two different configurations. I don't think it's done yet. Yeah. I think it has Vite support. Storybook under the hood will still use Webpack as far as I understood it. but you will only have one config in your project. That sounds wild from an implementation. So when I was doing that stream it was like Storybook would use Webpack and you would have to configure your Vite config to work with Webpack and go into the Webpack config and configure Vite It was like this inception of config and it was not fun. Yeah, no thanks. Yeah. And I mean, I had the same thing. I know the Vite builder is a little bit better now and actually like builds your Svelte components using Vite. but we had problems where it was like a component would work in Webpack, but not in Vite and like vice versa. And that caused like a ton of problems. Yeah, I started using Vitebook for a while and it's really good, but it's unfortunately abandoned now. Yeah. Yeah, but there are a bunch of different projects, right? You have Histoire is another one, I think. And then there's, is that Scott Tolinsky's one? Vitebook. Oh, Bukit. Bukit, but it's Bukit. I can never say it right because it's spelt with the capital K. It's Bukit. Oh, yeah. I always thought it was Bukit. Yeah, we just need to standardize. It is Bukit, but it's just spelt Bukit. Gotcha. The last I looked at Bukit, it wasn't documented yet, but he hasn't released it fully. I think a lot of things he builds are internal for his site, and then he gets done with what he needs to do. Yeah. So I've tried using Histoire, and that seems pretty nice. It's got Vue and Svelte support. And I think Storybook is seeing the light a little bit with the V, like you said, that they're trying to implement that as more of a native thing. but it being community driven, that's a really small team that works there. I think they only have like 40 to 50 people at Storybook. I'm pretty sure the newest version, like the next major version is going to have like first class support for V2. So I don't know. I've tried it a little bit and it seemed a lot better, but we'll see once it gets to like, you know, like a stable release. Yeah. So Bert, you're famous for your talks, your Svelte Summit talks. That's how you showed up on my radar, at least. Your first talk at Svelte Summit, was it – oh, it's not last year. Spring of last year. Was it spring? Oh yeah you did talks for both Right Yeah yeah yeah So that talk was very interesting You did a I don even know how you would describe it It's WWE. Yeah. No, no, no. That's the later one, right? Both of them kind of like you have the rock star vibe going. Sure, yeah. But you did the green screen with the chair cut out. That was the first one, right? where you kept your chair in the green skin like an 80s style retro yeah it's very very entertaining and it's it's it's always fun and exciting to see talks that are done in such a different way compared to to like you so i'm not like complaining about the regular talks i like the regular talks as well but they're mostly the same it's just like some person explaining a topic like showing something. But this one is just like, it's just out there. Very, very eye-catching and entertaining. So how did you, how did you end up like coming up with this idea? Oh, and I just want to say like your guys support for, I was really crying after I was done with it because I had no idea how that was going to go. It's like the support from the community on those has been like so cool. So like how it came about, I always wanted to do a talk at a tech conference. I was like always one of my goals. And I mean, I'm a team lead. I was trying to be like a good example so i was like i'm just gonna submit to svelte summit not expecting to get in but this is what you guys should do right and then also i got an email like next week like your talk's in i was like my heart sank i was like oh like now i need to like you know really work get this talk done so now you have to do it and so one of my um in college i actually like programming i was like major in computer science but like my main passion was like graphic design and um I was in like a meme group on campus where we'd just like hang out and make jokes and make funny videos like that and so for this talk I was like oh it's gonna be like serious this is gonna be a serious talk I did serious and I was recording it I was like this this just isn't working like this isn't me this is not how I do things and I was like I'm I'm just gonna be myself like I'm gonna make it goofy I'm going to do it how I've always done videos before and, you know, I'm going to try my best. If they don't like it, that's fine. I probably won't have another talk, but like, I'll go for it. And so, like, when my talk was coming up, like, the one before, I think it was like Penguins. Like, it was so nice, so

 well done, like very informative. I'm like, Oh my God, like mine is so goofy. I was like, my heart was like beating. I was like super nervous and it like played and it's like the support. Like everyone was like, Oh, that was like super cool. I was like, Oh, it's like, thank God. Like, and I mean, yeah, that's, that's something I always try to do is like, you know, I give people information, but give it to them like a fun way, like kind of like a Bill Nye type situation. So that was kind of my goal of it and i mean i just it's really cool that like everyone i just kind of like put myself out there and the whole stuff community was kind of like that's cool dude yeah it's it's uh yeah well like penguins talk yours was different and i think sorry and i think i think that being different i think being different is a really good differentiator i think that making a talk that's that's very different to other talks is is a great way to get noticed it's memorable and it's a bit of fun because everything was really sensible and straight on than you know very formal and well-planned it can get a bit kind of like samey so i think it's great it's dry and i didn't realize it was your first talk it's amazing you add that entertainment value and keep the educational part but like an entertainer too i think a lot of people could probably learn from both of both of your talks uh and i remember in the discord after so this was the the spring talk the the chair and the and the green screen one And I remember you said that it took you a very long time to make the edits work. So for those who's just listening, I urge you to go watch the talks during the show notes. But to give a recap, it's kind of like made in this 80s. And it kind of looks like it's badly done, but it's not done badly, if that makes sense. If you get my – It was intentional badness. Yes. Yeah, exactly. So it's like, you must've spent so much time like making the edits. So I always get over ambitious too. So like whenever I'm like talking about like, especially like a tech thing is like, I got to use what I'm talking about if I think it's so great. So like all my talks, like all the slides are done in like SvelteKit, stuff like that. Like all the edits were done in SvelteKit. And that's what took like a majority of time. Like in my first talk is that one where like all the like all the frameworks and stuff are like spinning around me getting that to work took so long and it like only worked on firefox so I had to like open Firefox like set it up to the green screen and then take it I didn realize you done it in like everything in SvelteKit Like even the, I thought it was just edited. Like just. Yeah. So I, all the backgrounds were in SvelteKit. Right. And so I would like record my screen and I would record me and then I would like put the SvelteKit instance on the background in Adobe. so it was a little bit edited but all of the graphics were SvelteKit I think everybody who does a talk on Svelte writes their own framework every single person it kind of seems like it SvelteKit was awesome for it because literally I just had it click route to the next page it was pretty nice it worked pretty well for it so you used the file system based router as like a slideshow where you clicked through to the next route, basically. Yeah, and I mean, I have it on my GitHub if people want to check it out. If Birdie Bot is my GitHub name. Birdie Bot? Oh, amazing. Birdie Bot. I can't spell. And I love how your second talk you called out some of your worst svelte code you've ever written. it was just so great to see like some of the mistakes like things you should never do yeah well to me that's like always how i've learned i'm definitely like a learn from your mistakes kind of person and like especially in svelte like what i'll do too when i'm learning is like i think i showed the one where i was uh i was trying to get like web component styling to working and i'll be like wow this is like a bad practice but let me see how far i can go down into this rabbit hole and just push the button on it and like how bad of code I can make and see if it still works. And usually you learn like a lot about the framework that way. Like you learn how little things like little intricacies work. So that was kind of why I did that talk too. I wanted to like show people who's like, here's some like quirky things you can do. And it kind of lets you know a little bit about what's happening behind the scenes. That's actually not something I've ever done. Like intentionally tried to write bad code. Kind of sounds like definitely a learning experience. Yeah. All right. You did a small feature for the SvelteKit Create CLI right Yeah So one of my goals for last year is I want to I a contributor on Svelte because I been updating the docs So anytime there a deadline I got to update it But I always wanted to be a contributor on SvelteKit, and I wanted like an actual feature, you know, that I wrote that was like actual code. So me and my coworker, I'll shout out my coworker, Obi, we got really into VTest. If you haven't used it with Svelte, use it. It's awesome. I love VTest so much. And it's funny, as we were building it, there wasn't many docs for it. And so we were, like, updating, like, the Svelte testing library docs. We were updating all these other docs. And I noticed in the SvelteKit discussion board, there was, like, a lot of people were, like, how do you get VTest to work with SvelteKit? And I was kind of in there. I was, like, checking it. I'm, like, this would be a good thing for the Svelte creative. You could just add VTest to it automatically. I've worked with those kind of scripts before. It doesn't seem that hard. and I also want to shout out Davey Pond. He's on GitHub. He also did like a ton of work. If you see him on Twitter, he does really cool stuff with Vtest. So I was like, all right, like when did the Svelte create, like got the repo. And I just had a thing where it's when you create a new project, you'd say, hey, do I want Vtest? Yes, add it. And you'll have a new Svelte project with Vtest. And I also want to shout out Ben McCann because he also made that PR like 10 times cooler. by adding a test for the Wordle game, which I thought was super sick. I thought that was really cool. Ben McCann is the GOAT. He is everywhere. Yeah. And I was kind of like, oh, it seems like it's a dumb, stupid feature. Some people might like it. Not that much code. It wasn't really that intricate, but I put it on Twitter, like, hey, I'm finally a Svelte contributor. And a lot of people are like, oh, thanks. Thanks a ton. And it felt awesome. is really cool. Yeah. More people should contribute in general, I think. I feel like the CLI is one of the greatest features I've felt too, and being able to get those things out of the box and have a recommended tool that is good for that out of the box is really nice. Yeah, because you know you're going to need a bunch of this stuff. Yeah, and I'll say, so I come from the C Sharp world a lot too, and like unit testing in C sharp is like awesome. There's like a ton of cool features, cool stuff. Like I love unit testing but I more of a front end dev now and I do a lot of JavaScript and I always been like the unit testing just sucks It terrible It like it really hard to work with It a lot more like to me unit tests should just be easy right So you don't have to think about them, just make them, it works. And I never really liked Jest, especially with Svelte. Like, I converted HighGraph's rich text renderer from React to Svelte, and I was using the Jest test for it, and it was just randomly breaking at points. and I'm like, you can't have a good unit test if it randomly breaks, doesn't work. And so I went to VTest and it's one of those things that's so cool. It's just like plug, you plug it in and it like works and it just literally automatically makes your code like 10 times better. What does it do differently? So I'd say like the big thing with like Svelte is like you just need to build a V. I always think you should build a V and VTest is just kind of like Jess, but with V. So it's a lot quicker. I'll also say I like like the config for it is a lot simpler than Jest. Use ESM modules too, which makes things a lot easier. I know Jest has ESM modules, but it's like some experimental. Again, like it just randomly broke. And to me, it's like a unit testing framework is completely like you can't even use it. If it will randomly break on one test, that's not a real break, you know, then you can never trust your code. And so I'd say one of my big things is the technologies I love in the front-end are ones that just work. And VTest, V and Svelte, those are those three. And PMPM too. You can just plug those in and they just work straight out. And it just literally makes your dev experience 10 times better. Agreed. PMPM is great. Yeah. I always put this joke on Twitter. It's like, I'm a simple man. I see a project in NPM. I migrate to PNPM. That's great. All right. Cool. So I thought we could, so there was recently, so for the other hosts, like any other questions for Bert before we move on? There's another topic that I wanted to discuss a bit as well. No, I just recommend watching the talks. I thought they were really well done. So good job leading my example there. And I've actually said that I think Bert is just, you know, I don't think you talked about it much, but you also have a prior history of being a gamer, right? Like a competitive gamer. Oh, yeah.

 I kind of tell that story about Svelte Summit is like I was super nervous going into it because I'm like I'm used to video game tournaments I used to play uh Super Smash Brothers and I kind of showed it off from my Svelte talk I have a tattoo of Captain Falcon who is my main on it and it was like those are like the conferences I was used to and like the Smash community is great like everyone's very welcoming but when you go to them it's kind of like oh I gotta prove myself right like I gotta play these games and it's like kind of what I love about fighting games is like that pressure you know like it's very fun it's very like exhilarating but like that's i was so nervous going to felt so much like oh i gotta prove myself because that's like what i was used to and one of the things my cleaning robot just went off so one of the things i just like loved about the svelte community at svelte summit was just how cool that community was how welcome they were because like that pressure just alleviated immediately and i was like oh i've got to prove myself here. It's just fun to talk and learn things. Yeah, well, I mean, I only bring it up also because I think you just come with some inherent energy and enthusiasm that makes you come across really well when you speak. So I hope to encourage you to do it more often in this year because you're good. Oh, dude, that means so much coming from you. Thank you. You should definitely apply to more broader conferences, I think, like JSConf, for example, or other yeah i mean i'd like to try it out it's like well i i just love what i do and i kind of just get caught up and it's like i usually it's like if i get an idea i just do it and like i really love svelte and i was like i know a good talk for svelte and i just kind of like did it i'm like kind of impulsive on that but i definitely would like to try it's just i need that idea i have the perfect conference for you you're from wisconsin and we talked about it last week that conference just opened up their CFP for their Wisconsin conference coming this summer. So that would be amazing for you. They also use felt on their homepage. So well on their site. Perfect fit. Yeah, I'll give it a look. And I have an in. So if you apply, let me know and I will talk to Clark. You could also do that same talk in other conferences because it's a bit like theater. Like, you know, it's fun seeing it recorded, but seeing it live is a whole different experience yeah yeah doing it live was is crazy i was so nervous yeah i can imagine it was funny after the talk everyone was like oh weren you nervous doing that i was like you didn see me run laps back and forth That how I got the energy out Yeah it was great It was great. Everyone should go watch it. But yeah, all right. So the topic, I wanted to discuss the... So there was a post on Reddit, the JavaScript subreddit, about the Vue.js 2022 year in review. and there's a lot of discussion about the transition from Vue 2 to Vue 3. I don't know much about Vue, but it seemed like there was a lot of frustration because there are apparently a lot of different ways that you can do the same thing. Tutorials everywhere showing all these different ways of doing things. I thought maybe that's something that we can learn from as a community. and even as the maintainers of Svelte, they should probably take a look at this and understand why the confusion is there and what to do and what not to do. And probably, I'm not sure. Was it similar to going from component object-based to classes? That's the word I was looking for, classes to hooks and React. What was the change that happened? Yeah, maybe, Bert, maybe you'd know more about this. Dude, it's been a while since I couldn't view. I always tell people I'm like a fighting game solo main. I just pick one framework and I stick with it. But I just remember my main frustration was like, all right, I taught my entire team Vue 2. We converted everything over to Vue 2. And now it's like you're getting stuff, oh, you can't use it unless you're using Vue 3. Oh, you can't use it unless you're using Vue 3. And one of the things I value as a developer, especially as you get more senior, is like if it works, like that's the most valuable thing, right? Like I know we want to make things faster and better and stuff like that, but like changing something that works is an inherent risk. And like for view two to view three, like having to update the whole code base again, that's so risky. And so like a lot of people are just trapped in view two, but then you're seeing these new toys that are view three and you're like, why did they do this? It's a ton of frustration. There was no easy migration command. So that was something that SvelteKit provided when there was a big breaking change, they had a migration path that at least helped that along. I think there was. I think there was like a little bit, but it wasn like foolproof It been a while so sorry Yeah Yeah so I just thought that I read the thread and it kind of just felt like a lot of frustration from developers. And mainly in, I think the thing that stood out to me is there was a lot of people talking about, I think I mentioned it already, but like you can do the same thing, but in like four different ways, which just confuses people. a lot and you see one to like, especially for beginners, they, they see one tutorial showing one way of doing it. And then they see another tutorial showing it in the other, the second way, and then a third one in the third way. And then you've got this mix of all these different things that you kind of have to learn to understand new code bases and what works for your code base. The other problem was that Nuxt wasn't supporting Vue 3 either. So they had no way to make like a full framework application with it either. So Nuxt 2 was the only way that they could create an application framework. Yeah, that's interesting because maybe it makes sense to always keep Svelte, the major versions of Svelte and SvelteKit in sync. So whenever Svelte 4 releases, you would release a... I think that's going to happen too because SvelteKit is now the recommended way to create any kind of Svelte app. So I think that by default, they're going to be kind of intertwined. Yeah. I guess we could ask our maintainer. We even supported Vite 4 like a couple days after it was released, right? Yep. Yeah. Yeah. Anthony, maybe you know something about this topic. I don't know. I'm not sure. I'm not sure I have more information than you do right now, to be honest. I haven't been following the discussion. I know the big thing with Vue 2 is the main component library, VueDify, I think it literally just got to Vue 3 a few months ago. And I know that was really popular. A lot of people Vue use that. And it's kind of just like, yeah, when you're stuck, and all that's stuck in Vue 2, you just got to deal with it. Right. You can't upgrade, right? Because the design library that you're using is stuck on Vue 2. That makes sense. Well, it was just an interesting thread, I thought. and I think we can learn from it. And I mean, this is my kind of opinion too. Like I don't like breaking changes. Like you should try to avoid them wherever possible And I think it is possible to avoid them I can speak from making a framework standpoint you know but like just updating things like a little bit one at a time you know and getting people there Right. Instead of just updating all at once and being like, all right, all your stuff's old now and broken and you should feel bad. Like, I feel like that's the frustration, like a lot of like devs who aren't in kind of in this space feel. and I totally get it because I got the same thing. I was like, oh, I just converted my whole code base to Vue 2 and now literally the second I'm done, it's old and crappy and I have to upgrade. It's just frustrating. I think that breaking changes, you do end up making them because if you don't make them, then you end up with the alternative which is potentially worse, which is something along the lines of create class and class-based components in React or hooks and the old way of doing things. I can't remember what that was, but you end up with two ways of doing the same thing and you end up with mixed documentation, things getting out of date, things that are still relevant. When I first came to React, I looked at how to start just doing it. This was way back in the past and there was so many different ways to do the same thing and I didn't know which was the right one. I didn't want to start building something because it'd be out of date. And so at least having versions of saying, well, V2 does this and V3 does this and SvelteKit does this. That's still a problem in my head. Yeah, well, exactly, because they have to kind of maintain this never-ending backwards compatibility. And there's other places where that's done, such as Java. Java has maintained the endless backwards compatibility. And it just makes life harder, you know, having benefits and disadvantages. But it makes life, for me, harder, and I'd rather people just major versions. You can support it for a time, and then you have a breaking change, or you have no progress. So if you find an API that works better and you do that breaking change, like you can give your users time to migrate over and tell them that it's going to be deprecated and it's going to be going away in the future, but that this is the path forward and it's better. And it's a clear boundary. You say this is version three, this is version two, and it's very obvious which is the new, which is the older. And that's what that blog post goes into is that Evan is looking to get on a more release schedule and to use Semvir and like do the correct like patching and versioning. I think one of the things too is just like getting the supporting libraries on board too. Cause I think, like I said, that was a lot of the frustration you brought up, Brittany, is like, yeah, Nuxt wasn't Vue 3 yet, Vue Defy.

 I wasn't three yet. And they're just kind of like left out to dry on those. And I find like a lot of people find that frustrating too, where it's like, all right, like all these libraries that I've built my code around are just, you know, I can't update to the newest and greatest things. And it's not something that we do particularly well either because. Yeah. How many libraries do you use with Svelte? That's one of my things is like every other framework that I've used, you have to pull in all these other libraries that was Svelte. I don't feel like I have that need to go out and reach for libraries. so a lot of times it's just like code that you have to go and update but not like other libraries and wait on them yeah that's true well i think i also think that's one of the good things about svelte that would help you avoid this is that it's like a compiler right and i know like a lot of compilers they have like migration versions right that will be interoperable with the new version and the old version so to help people like convert over it's like view like with view 3 it's like that's just your code if it doesn't work it doesn't work whereas like svelte you kind of have more options do the compiler. I don't know if you'd do that, but that's how I've seen other compilers do it. Yeah, that's true. Your compiler version will always work with it. Isn't Vue 3 a compiled-based language now? Didn't we make that switch? Some parts of it. Some parts of it, yeah. I think it's the template that is compiled, and then the rest is not. I'm not a Vue expert, so I wouldn't know. I have no idea. that's what I read in the thread I just saw someone tweeting about it the other day yeah there's a blog post on it on the on the view site I think that talks about it but it is it's just one part of it and I think yeah like you're right it's the compiler it's the markup part basically yeah cool so that's the topic discussed we're getting into the end of the show where we have two excellent and fun sections. We're starting off with unpopular opinions. Do you guys have any? All right. I know people talk about this on the show a lot, but Tailwind, I know everyone brings it up, but I'm going to be a little bit more unique with it. So lately, and this is probably like the intended way you code styles and Svelte, But lately I have been like not using any custom classes at all in Svelte or like very rarely I just use a semantic HTML and then also use like select by the ARIA label And my coworkers have been like this is kind of weird but I like it And it kind of brings in what I liked about Tailwind and to like actual CSS. And so I know this is like a little bit of like, yeah, this is how you should code Svelte. But my coworkers think it's weird. And but I've been like loving it lately. So, like, one of my examples is for, I think it was like a Twitter thread there talk about, like, how you style an active link. And I was like, oh, you just select, you know, anchor tag, ARIA current equals page, right? And that could be your selector. And, you know, everyone's like, oh, that's kind of cool. Like, you could do that. And I was like, I've been loving it lately because it's like now people, when they see the CSS, they know immediately what that code's doing, what it's checking for, right? You don't use Tailwind at all. You're using like a Tailwind-like philosophy. So one of the things I like about Tailwind is, so my opinion is, you know, most people are not good at coding CSS and the people who are good at coding CSS have different opinions, you know? And so like one of my frustrations is when I come into a new project, I'm looking at CSS, I have to like constantly reference the style sheets and be like, oh, what is this? Like people have different naming philosophies. And to me, that's what I really love about Tailwind is like, you can just look at it and be like, yeah, it's ugly, but I know immediately what you're doing, what you're trying to get done, like what's, you know, and if there's a problem, I can immediately see it and fix it. And I totally get like the, oh yeah, it's really ugly. Oh yeah, you're like, utility classes are huge. And so what I like about this kind of approach is Svelte, where it's like, you know, if you have anchor tag, aria current equals page, everyone knows like, that's active link, right? Like you just know more of this like custom class naming where we have to figure out, you know, what everyone calls something or you don't have to teach like a philosophy like BEM or something like that. It's just pretty built into the styling. It's semantic and makes sense. It's opinionated. It's what you like about the Tailwind version. So it's a good opinionated baseline that keeps everybody kind of on the same page with styling where if you have multiple people working on a code base, it could get out of hand with creating custom classes. And like you said, you'd have to cross. That was something I was going to bring up when we were talking about the CLI is when are we going to get some CSS things in there Are they going to add Tailwind or SAS options where we could just have those integrated immediately with the CLI Yeah. I don't know. They seem pretty interested in keeping it separate. There's the Svelte ad that does most of that stuff, but it's something you have to know about. That one is not updated. Well, it wasn't as of the last time I tried to use it for Tailwind. you have to make a couple of changes afterwards. Right. Yeah. Maybe that's worth bringing into the CLI somehow. I don't know. But there's a downside to growing the CLI infinitely as well, right? You have to keep the configs up to date all the time and things break, new versions are released. I don't know. And I will say I think Svelte's like the easiest thing to add Tailwind to. It's stupid easy. So you just literally run that spell adder and it goes on and it's great. There's also a big resistance to adding loads and loads of flags to the CLI and things like that because it does increase the kind of very quick setup time. It does ask us the questions that are probably irrelevant for 90% of people. And I think that it's fair to say that we avoided configuration for a long time for the same reason, that happy default should be the best and then you're on your own. We've kind of changed the plan a little bit because we found the community building goals was a different configs that looked similar, but operated differently. And we thought it was better if we had like a standard format and V kind of helped us get that because it's essentially a V config with a Svelte plugin config. But it's these decisions that, you know, if we start making sort of adding Tailwind and stuff native, we're almost kind of blessing Tailwind and saying, hey, this is a great framework, you should use it. And, you know, no one's ever going to fully, completely agree on that, for example. But I was saying to give options, Like we give TypeScript or JS doc. So like you could do multiple options there, but it doesn't matter. You could, but then you're blessing, you're blessing all those options, right? And there might be other options that you're not, you know, that you're not not blessing. It's just that they're not blessed because they're not in the CLI. So it's always a toss up of, are we like effectively recommending something and we don't necessarily recommend anything? You know, I felt, sorry, Rich, I just said felt thinking Rich, but Rich would have you do everything raw. because it is often easy when you may not need all these things that you add in. It's become the default. And I think that the moment you start adding all these options in it like well Svelte saying we should we should use this and this and this And it just you know it a very hard path to come out of again And I agree with Anthony there because I think one of my noob traps was using Tailwind with Svelte because my component library, the first time I built a Tailwind. And like I said, we got to this project. We're like, all right, we want to encapsulate everything in web components. With Tailwind, you can't do that because it's all like a global CSS. and so like what I've started to really love about Svelte is like you just have a component that's like completely encapsulated like carries like all its styles and one thing I really started to love about is like I had to convert from Tailwind and I put up a tweet about it where I was just running it I was putting the post CSS with the utility classes from uh from Tailwind and I was running it through Svelte pre-process and it just gave me a clean CSS file that I could like start with to migrate it over. But it looks so ugly. But I don't know, it's such a cool thing. And it's like, that's one thing I really appreciated doing that. You can write it in something that people don't agree with. I know there's a lot of contention over Tailwind, but you can just have it compile and give it to someone that's like, pure JS, CSS. They don't need to know what you did before. Yep. Alright. Cool. Brittany. Oh, yeah. So we were talking about Ryan Florence earlier and mentioned Remix. And this will lead a little bit into my pick, but my pick is the Bytes newsletter. And in the newsletter this week, they're doing their 2023 picks. And it says Remix will go all in on web components. And I have a feeling this is because Shopify bought Remix and they're working with Hydrogen now. And Hydrogen does a lot with web components. And I'm assuming that's why they picked this. And I'm like, I don't think that's going to happen. Maybe not. an unpopular opinion or relevant to this episode, but we did talk about remix and web components quite a bit. So I don't think that that's going to happen. They did go framework agnostic where you can use react router in other frameworks now and react router is remix now. And it's kind of interesting, but maybe I have any of you tried it with Svelte. Is it possible? Like I haven't even, that's what Austin's talk was at Svelte summit. So he created the Svelte. Oh, it's Vmix. Yeah. Right, yeah, yeah, yeah. But if Remix is... Right, I'm just saying I haven't tried it yet. I did try Svmix, and...

 It was only client-side rendered when I tried it. So I didn't end up using it because it didn't have the full capabilities of SvelteKit or Remix because Remix is fully server-side rendered. That's the only option you have in it. So I think Svelte and Remix is actually a separate project. His name of his talk was like, it was like different names that he could possibly name this thing. And it's like Svelte and Remix bunched together. yeah yeah so but Sveemix is actually a project someone made to do that rebuild Remix but using SvelteKit I think so they are different I haven't seen this one Sveemix.com seriously the full stack addition to SvelteKit what okay interesting seems to be updated five months ago I'll have to look five months ago that seems like a long time in open source world yeah it's before the routing changes I think I don't know anyway yeah go ahead sorry maybe your opinion was that my opinion is just I don't think that they will go I think that actually them working with hydrogen will bring more of the remix stuff to hydrogen not the other way around right yep makes sense and i guess that it could be because they're trying to do this use the platform thing and do more web standards but web components just the api in general is awful to work with it's hard and i don't think they have server-side rendering um remix is only server-side rendered okay well that's interesting because that to me i use web components quite a bit. That's one thing I like about Svelte is you can just compile them to web components and they work pretty well, but no server-side rendering, that's kind of the big sticking point. Right, yeah. Yeah, isn't that one of the biggest downsides, that it's not easy to server-side render? Maybe it is. Maybe there's a framework out there that doesn't. I know there's a few, but I haven't really tried them. Uh lit is one of them Yeah Yeah But I I feel like lit is is probably more of a way to write web components But I think the meta framework needs to be built in a way to handle server-side rendering of web components. Yeah. Yeah, the only way right now is like some kind of, you know, offline rendering, offline DOM, which is obviously not great. Oh, I see. Right. Well, cool. Web components. Exciting topic. I mean, I will say that's one thing I really like about Svelte is like, you know, here at Ashi, we're kind of trapped. It's like we have all these global styles that are like infecting everything. And we need to find some way where we could get Svelte on the page without affecting everything else. And Svelte's been awesome at that. You can just turn on the Web Component compiler and it just works. so you can put it in there. And then what I love about Svelte being a compiler is once you're done with that, or if you have another project where you want to use those components, you can use them, and you basically effectively have one component that kind of works everywhere. Yep. That's awesome. You might be the biggest user of the web components thing, because I know that Rich doesn't actually use it very much. I mean, it's like, I think it's one of my strong points on Svelte is it works anywhere JS works, right? Like other components you need to load a huge library and that like will only work, you know, like if you have that library loaded or it's like Node.js. Like I love that about Svelte. It's like you get the self-contained little package and you can be like, oh, I have a weird use case because I'm converting a huge site over. Could I compile it to web components? Like, sure. Yep. Very good. All right, last opinion. Last opinion, I guess, yeah, I guess I'll make this one quick, but effectively I think Elon Musk was right for one of the first times in his life he said that bookmarks in Twitter are really badly implemented um and I agree because I use them quite a lot people post interesting stuff on Twitter and I bookmark it and I just never look at it again because it's so hidden away even even the way to share it I forgot the first few times I started using it because you kind of share it and then you click bookmark and it's kind of hidden under an icon an icon um and I found the same thing on Reddit because I added it I didn't even realize it had like a save thing i clicked save and i couldn't find it for ages afterwards i had to google how to find the bookmarks thing on reddit whereas actually you know the front page is wonderful what i want to see is a list of things that i seen before and gone yeah that really good i want to go back and read those and it should be really prominent and you know right there is actually buried under profile under a tab so i think the bookmarks are wonderful you know twitter and reddit being examples i'm sure there's more um pocket is what i've used before pocket was quite good at that kind of stuff and that was quite accessible but they're just really badly implemented everywhere and i think that it's a real really useful feature it's like your own curated feed of things that are guaranteed to be interesting to you. YouTube, a watch later playlist that I use quite a bit. And in the recent redesign, they de-emphasized it so that I had trouble finding it. And I think this is somewhat on purpose. So the dystopian reason for making bookmarks intentionally bad is because no one actually uses it. You use it because you're abnormal. Most people, it's a wishlist that people never get to right yeah you're it's it's what you want to be rather than what you actually are and youtube being youtube any any of these social media companies they want to feed you what you actually end up watching instead of what you want to watch yeah that's that's fair enough yeah they want to direct you in a certain direction rather than uh where you want to go yeah it's It's kind of like I was laughing there while you were talking when you said that you couldn't find the bookmarks on Reddit. It's just like, that's ridiculous that it's that hard to find the bookmarks. But yeah, if they intentionally hide it, of course. The whole Reddit UI is very confusing for me, especially being an Android user. There's lots of different apps that you can download for it. And so each app looks different. depending on which one you're using. It is so confusing. I barely use Reddit because the app is not standard. Yeah, I would recommend using... So first you've got to get iPhone. No. Get an iPhone and then get Apollo, which is the best Reddit app. But it's like the official Reddit app. You say first I have to buy an Apple product, then I'm done. I'm out. So you could still use Reddit. The fact that you have to use a third-party app. Yeah. yeah that's a problem yeah why does reddit not have a good standard app for both operating systems yeah they don have a good app and they don have a good website like the reddit is broken you know i i think the old reddit website it still fine So if you replace www with old you get this old interface that actually usable and fast and doesn't lag on your computer. Why? Why am I doing that? Why am I not using the de facto? Yeah, I wouldn't know. It's very, very odd. Like, I have no idea what's going on at Reddit. I'd love to talk to someone. This is ugly. Maybe we could. I just opened it. Yeah, but it is, but it's very functional and practical. Like, it's not full of, like, fluff and all of this other stuff that's on the new interface. It reminds me a little bit of Hacker News. Like, it's just old. Yes, exactly. Yeah. When I first discovered Reddit, I was quite an avid Dig user, and Dig had a great interface, and I thought Dig was really slick and neat, and they changed it into some, well, it kind of lost popularity because Reddit was taking popularity. thing i looked at reddit and thought well this looks rubbish so it must be rubbish and i didn't use it for ages um and then i eventually kind of realized it i was like okay this interface is rubbish but it's quite nice to use but the problem is then it's like dig dig disappeared and became some kind of nonsense that no one uses um and i was stuck with reddit and i was like okay well this is pretty good because i can use it and then they did their redesign and then though you can access the old one i was like this is going in the wrong direction they've now they've now made this really bad and i can't use it so um i just you read it less and less as a result now all right i think that's all of our unpopular opinions i don't have one sean you don't you don't have one either nope all right uh picks then i can go first i have two picks one is svelte french toast it sounds as exciting as it is it's a super small like toast library oh for notifications and stuff and it supports uh promises custom styling and all sorts of fun stuff uh it's great i thought this was like a local breakfast shop you had yeah that's called svelte french toast yeah i mean svelte is a word that's used in English language. Yeah. It's just like the problem is that here in Sweden, like the way you're pronounced Svelte means pretty much famine. So it's, it wouldn't work. Yeah. That does not work. Yeah. But yeah, Svelte French toast. It's great. Super easy. I have a pretty good pick. It's actually a video game.

 if I can pick it for you. This will kind of explain a lot of my visual style because it's one of my biggest inspirations. If you haven't played the game Hypnospace Outlaw and you're a web developer, you've got to play it now. I don't know if you guys have heard about it, but basically the plot is you're a moderator on the 90s internet and it's like an interactive story where you're browsing through these old crappy web pages and it's so much fun. You have to ban people and stuff like that and then people will make pages reacting to your band, calling you out. It's so cool, and I highly encourage everyone who's a web dev to play it. It is such an awesome game, and it's sick. Do you get like a... That is great, Rick. Yeah. Do you get an extra good understanding of what it takes to be a moderator online? Oh, yeah. Playing this, yeah? It's so fun. The first quest is my favorite, because you're like, it's like, oh, people are using this copyright character, Guptail Gooper, right? And you need to ban the people using them. And so you go to like a kindergartner teacher's website and she has like pictures her kids drew of them. And you just go like, you're like, I wonder if I can. And then you hit ban on it. It's like banned. And then like, it goes to the next day and she's like, this moderator banned me from my kindergarten pictures. it's such a delight it's so fun to play and it's so cool what I love about it is you'll find hidden pages of really cool stuff on it it's such a cool game I highly recommend everyone play it I'm going to buy it it looks really good on Steam yep am I next? I'll do a quick one every year I do a podcast roundup and listen to a fair amount of podcasts I've done it for three years and this 2022 was my fourth year. So I put it in there if you want my recommendations. I picked a bunch of things. Yeah, yeah. So any particular ones that you... Probably like, I mean, the biggest podcast that kind of appeared in this scene last year was the Founders Podcast by David Senra. Basically reading a bunch of biographies by famous founders and then picking through lessons from them. I think there are a lot of people who study success but not as well as he does and not as enthusiastically storytelling And think it it helps because i will never read those biographies on my own but this guy basically just goes through and he's extremely passionate about biographies so yeah why not such an interesting i like i like kind of learning from yeah yeah yeah and he's and he blew up like a lot recently so um i think he's He went from a complete, no one ever heard of him to one of the biggest podcasts in the U.S. last year. For those more technical minded, you might like the Invent Like an Owner podcast, where it is an oral history of the early days of Amazon by the people who were there. So they have interviews with the people who created the Amazon recommendation system. They have interviews with people who created Amazon catalog. How do you expand from books to DVDs to everything else? So yeah, I just really enjoy these kinds of stories. Brittany? Yeah, so I talked a little bit about mine already, but UI.dev has a newsletter that they send out. I think it's weekly. It's called Bytes, B-Y-T-E-S newsletter. And I always enjoy reading it. It's got fun memes and graphics in there and usually has relevant information. And they just did their 2023 picks. But I really enjoy reading that one. And going off of Bert's pick about like gaming things that are like good for programmers, this little game called Danger Crew that was actually built with React, I believe, which is interesting. But it's a retro style RPG and programmers like kind of like Pokemon. You battle each other with your laptops. And so it's programmer-styled, like, adventure game. It's really cool. That's so cool. I'm definitely going to have to check that out. Yeah, I'm going to try it out as well. It looks familiar. It looks like a – I used to use a tool called Habit RPG. It has the same kind of pixeled art style. Habit RPG was basically just, like, a way to make you get better at doing habits. but just like gamifying it. I think I've used that before too. And the game is like $5 right now. I think it's $10 normally, but it's 50% off right now. So pretty cheap. Nice, nice. All right, Anthony? Yeah, okay. So in America in the 90s or something when the G Joe cartoons were around the G Joe series was around on TV I animated a draw on series, I think it was. Obviously, I'm not an American, not from America, and I never saw this on TV. But I'm aware of it because of the PSAs that were made. So they used the G.I. Joe characters to make these public service announcements. Little short clips, a few seconds long, about don't walk off with strangers and don't play in their own, all that kind of stuff, so that kids would learn not to do silly stuff, right? And then someone, of course, because it's the internet, went and redubbed those with really, really weird, bizarre stuff. And they were hilarious. When I was late teen, I found it hilarious, and it cracked me up. And there's one particular one called I'm a Computer, where the guy, for some bizarre reason, declares that he's a computer and starts talking to people saying, stop all the downloading, all this kind of weird stuff, and it was just hilarious. but hey kid I'm a computer that's exactly it that's a pretty good impression as well in fact so you should watch these but my brother in all his wisdom managed to find this which you can't see so I have to describe it but they actually made real GIJ models of the characters from these from these PSAs that's so awesome which is super cool I'm not sure whether I should keep it in the box or get it out or whatever there's a lot of lights not good here but yeah it's so cool it's got the dog and everything i'm literally gonna order that like tonight that's like my favorite video i need to it's just it's like uh it's very random the camera's not good it says and knowing is half the battle this is the mutt one but there's obviously a bunch of other ones in this collection so these are awesome so i've got this with christmas present i think it's great i think like i'm not really an actual figure kind of guy but these are worth having for sure and that's my pick nice I have another pick so one last one it's Noster it's an alternative to Twitter and Telegram and all sorts of stuff it's actually a protocol for decentralizing communications basically so it stands for notes and other stuff transmitted by relays so we've talked a bit about Mastodon lately and this is another competitor I guess you would say and it's very simple you just create a key pair like a private public key pair and your private key is what you use to post stuff and your public key is what people use to follow you basically very very easy very nice i can recommend it i just finally also fully understand it yeah you so so you don't sign up anywhere you just create a key pair and you use an application that's it um what kind of application like how do you follow people and read their stuff. Yeah. So, so there, there, you can, you can connect to a bunch of relays that will relay messages to other users. And, but you can basically make any kind of application. People have made a telegram clones or Twitter clones. And is all of that aggregated anywhere or you're just responsible for aggregating it? So the way it works is I think it's ephemeral to a point. uh so like messages won't be stored forever for example um depends on the relay so the relay you connect to has decides how much they want to save and what messages they want to relay it's a very interesting and nice idea and it's much simpler than mastodon in my opinion but yeah and it for some reason uh jack from like jack dorsey yeah got into it so it got a huge upswing and then elon musk tweet or was it twitter tweeted something about like other social media platforms being banned and nostr was on there for some reason yeah it has like 2 000 users or something i don't know it's just tiny so i don't know it's it's a it's a cool it's a cool it's like the best it's the best advertising ever for that for twitter tweets about don't mention these competitors by just mention them all um yeah i think jack dorsey said something like nostr is the only is the only viable competitor to twitter or something like that that's what he's saying and he's he's actually i'm so i'm following him on there and he's actually very active like he posts a lot and he replies to like random people and stuff so and he he said on there it's it feels like twitter in the early days i was on on twitter in the early days i don't know what that means but sounds good i guess well like they're like regular days but like early yeah i don't know well so that's that's everything i think thank you for joining us bert dude thank you so much for having me guys you guys are awesome thank you i want everyone who listens to the podcast to know that these guys are as cool and

 real life as they sound on the show. And so are you. Thank you. Yeah, hopefully we can all see each other next year. This year. That'd be awesome. It's a new year. So this year at some point at Spelt Summit. Yeah, I look forward to it. Yes. Yeah. All right. And with that, I think we are done for the day. We'll see you all next week. and yeah same bad time, same bad same bat time same bat I don't remember the thing. Anyway, goodbye everyone Later Bye Hey, it's Kabir If you like the show, please drop a review on your favorite podcast player It would help out a lot. Thanks