 hey everyone another podcast episode long time no see last time was like a couple of weeks ago right we're we're cursed at the moment so we we always have to reschedule the the recordings but here we are uh the regular hosts and we have a guest here as well let's uh i guess we can introduce ourselves since it's been been a while i'm kevin i run a site called svelte school and i'm involved in the svelte society and i run this podcast as well. Yeah. And we are finally back again after a while. I'm Sean. I work on SWIX on the internet and I'm kind of involved in Svelte Society. But also I guess the real news is that I work at Temporal.io where we are actively building out an app in SvelteKit. So I think it's pretty interesting that all three of us now work on production Svelte apps. definitely yeah hi I'm Anthony so I'm trying this remote working lark where you you work for a computer that isn't your normal computer and it's really not going very well at all so that's I guess that's my news but at the same time I'm still a CTO of Bianc and I'm still a felt core maintainer although I have to say that the amount of priorities right now means that I haven't done much maintenance recently. But yeah, thank you. Hi. Hi. We can hear you all right. It's fine. And we have a guest with us today. I see you avoided guessing my name. I was coming up to that part. So your real first name is Martin, right? Yeah. Yeah. But you're all your online nickname. I would go with Greg Airfosser Online. So like most people probably know me by that on the server as well. I most active in the SvelteKit channel and sometimes in the Svelte channel I a core maintainer of SvelteKit and Veep but I don really do the Svelte core stuff I had no idea you were working on VEAT as well He's our Trojan. We put him inside the holes and we pushed him in. uh yeah so it's yeah that one started because uh i was trying to get like initially we had some really break uh we we had major breaking bugs with svelte kit that had to be fixed on v so i made like two prs on that and then um it snowballed from there like they they were they happened to be looking for maintainers at the time like core maintainers at the time and um one of the existing core maintainer suggested to me, hey, why don't you apply to this? Oh, that's cool. So what's your background like? I don't actually, well, I don't have anything to plug. And I'm still in university right now. And so far, I've been doing web stuff for a while now. I've also launched a SvelteKit production app for a client. it's running it's been running all right um yeah like i touched thought like about two two one was it one or two years ago let me check oh only one year ago and then like took a break for like six months and then when i came back it was still fresh in my memory i i it was very easy to pick up again yeah yeah so you're still you're still at university are you are you studying for like like a master's or a phd or whatever whatever no no no it's it's not a master's it's just a bachelor's okay i'd say that's pretty cool yeah but like have you met with other uh you know what was your background with at the moment before itself like um the first thought i mean like in high school i tried to react a bit but like the like like my i couldn't wrap my brain around it Like, it was just really complex. And before that, like, I guess, like, I was already into web dev, but, like, mostly I touched, like, vanilla JS and didn't really use any frameworks, just because, like, every time I wanted to touch frameworks, I was driven away by the huge bundle sizes. Because like React comes with a huge runtime Vue was better but like still came with a huge runtime React was way smaller but by the time I saw React I already saw Svelte first. Yeah. And it's more fun to write HTML. That's just my opinion. So what does your nickname mean? Or does it even have a meaning? the tape crew. It's a really old reference to... It's localized as Mega Man in the US, but in Japan, it's called Rockman. I don't know if you've heard of Mega Man and the series. One of the games is Battle Network? Battle Network... Was it 5 or 6? Two of the final bosses are called Grigor, and And one's called Gregor, one's called Falza. And then they do a fusion at some point. So I just use that. So that's been my username since... How many years has it been now? It's like 2008 or something. It's really old. And I haven't really switched usernames since. Yeah, that makes sense. so how do you how did you get into like svelte kit or rather like how did you become a core maintainer so i mentioned that i had a production app in svelte kit so it started with that like i already i already had an idea of like what the routing landscape was like in svelte so i already knew that i wanted a file system router so my options at the time were either use Zapper, use Rootify, or somehow work with SvelteKit, which at the time had no documentation because it was pre-beta. And so I tried Rootify first, but I don't know why. I couldn't set it up. I knew the Rootify server was very friendly, but for some reason something in my head said, why don't we go uh try svelte kit the the beta undocumented thing and then see if you can um reverse engineer that to make it work uh so i started with that like i made um like i knew like it wasn there wasn much information to go off at first Cause like there wasn one there wasn a SvelteKit channel Two it was like even when there there was like some SvelteKit talk it was very hush hush at the time. Like just people passing around information, Hey, you can do this in SvelteKit or whatever. And the only other like thing that close to documentation you could go off was sapper documentation. so i i realized that the production the the the bundle was what do you call it the npm package for speltkit had the js mappings in it so you could reverse the code back to its original roughly its original source instead of like the minified stuff so that made it a lot easier to figure out what was going on under the hood and like and then i started like and then i started making like my own patches on top of that because like one of the big blockers was like speltkit didn't work on windows at the time because like none of the maintainers used windows so it's like it was a low priority and like it's pretty hard to test anyway if you don't have a windows machine and then like a couple what weeks later i decided like well why don't we document this because like I needed to use it anyway for my really bad idea of using pre-alpha software in production. Because I had one more person working with me. So I just kind of threw him to the wolves and like, here's Svelte, here's the tutorial, here's SvelteKit. And then I didn't tell him it was pre-beat software until we were about two weeks into the project. I see no problem with that. I think that's completely fine. No problem at all. So, yeah. So I had to write my own documentation for that. And then I realized, well, this is useful for other people as well. So why not just, you know, it's easier to, instead of like having to retype every time I wanted to tell someone, hey, this thing works like this in SvelteKit, I might as well just have actual pages that I could link to. And then I released the documentation. that way. Yeah. Yeah. So I was also going to say you, you started like a secret discord server, right? It wasn't secret so much as like, I realized like, well, the maintainers don't want to talk about it. So like, obviously I'm not going to pressure them to talk about it, might as well just have

 somewhere, some place to talk about it that doesn't bother them. So I just made a server. I put the link on it on the unofficial documentation, and then people started coming in because, like, well, there was no other place to really talk about SpelledKit until the public beta. I think that a lot of the maintainers were actually using your documentation because we didn't really have our own documentation anyway because documentation was kind of the last thing that got built because you kept changing stuff. so actually I think your documentation became a source of truth yeah that also became weird because some of the stuff I had to guess stuff like the dollar app I couldn't really figure out what does this do I cross reference with Sapper most of the time to figure out roots work about the same way the page stuff kind of works the same way yeah like aside from renaming differences and then what else but yeah like some of the less used stuff the more niche like base path and like asset paths I can figure out on my own so hopefully that didn't that wasn't like a terrible rendition of the documentation I guess and now I think it worked very well Yeah, I should probably take it down at this point because it's outdated at this point. And I should be pointing to the official docs instead because I can update that instead. That makes sense. All right. So should we talk a bit about some news maybe? Sure. What happened? Yeah. Yeah, I don't know. So Svelte is the most loved framework in the Stack Overflow thing. I think we I didn't see that come out I didn't see like I was never asked to vote on that like I don't know how you actually how you become part of it I think you I think we actually mentioned it on the podcast like a couple of months ago did we? or it might have been some other thing yeah but that that makes me that makes me kind of happy because I'm you know I'm guessing here the fact is that it had fewer responses who actively really liked it versus the number of responses to react who thought it was good or okay You know like the sentiment of the responses was better Really Oh. I don't think I dread anything, really. You don't? I dread React. No, I don't. Well, I mean, I don't. Yeah, I mean, I never use it, so why would I dread it, I guess? Yeah, that makes sense. I'm actually a bit surprised that ASP.NET Core is up there. but then I have no idea about anything regarding ASP.NET. I think that I guess ASP.NET and the whole stack and the whole ecosystem around it and the tooling and everything, it's kind of like a walled garden. People who write applications in kind of full stack and .NET tend to use Blazor, for example. They don't really have a huge amount to compare with in terms of what you would see if you were just in that stack and involved in it. And I think that as a stack of stuff, if you are trying to develop stuff with it, it looks pretty good. You know, it works together really well. It's cohesive. It's easy. It's straightforward. It's well documented. So I think there's a lot to be said if you're happy to accept all the caveats of .NET. Like I'm not. I don't like being tied in so much. I don't like the kind of, yeah, it's open source technically and it's multi-platform, but it's not really. like it's still very windows focused and windows centric and vs code real only runs on windows for example but if if you if that's the world you live in i think that you have quite a good experience with it right yeah so like bringing it back to svelte so sean you mentioned uh you guys are building something in svelte kit right how's that like is does this mirror the the responses that you have from your from your colleagues yeah my team's uh pretty happy with it And we're hoping to come up with our, like, how it's going so far, you know, blog posts where we can actually offer some advice or some learnings that we've had. But so far, no regrets. I think that people have been pretty happy with the development speed, which is the main consideration. And then I think the ecosystem arguments that people have had so far doesn't really hold water just because we don't use that much. And the ones that we do use, we can either import from existing projects or write ourselves. And that fine So what else is new in Svelte this month There a lot of new stuff Fixes So what's the status on that now? I think also we had, sorry, just one more thing. I think that we also spotted that the test runner wasn't running a bunch of the tests as well. So that's now being rectified, I think, or it's in the press being rectified. But yeah, it's proof that without solid test coverage, you definitely struggle to keep things working as they should. Yeah. So how many hidden bugs did you guys find when you ran the tests? I think Dominic's got a PR open for it. Yeah, I don't know how many we've got to fix. So with regards to SvelteKit, how far along are we at the moment? you guys know but couldn't you couldn't you for example take the you know take a start kit uh project and then just run it using the node server and not run it serverless like that that would also work right i think conversely as well though um sapper was pretty hard to deploy on serverless. So there was the, and there was, there is the SAPA, what do you call it? It's the Vercel SAPA builder, which is just kind of like a module that bundles your SAP application and allows you to deploy it on Vercel. And that's like a third party tool that I've contributed to. And having contributed to it, I can tell you it's extremely convoluted in how it builds and what it does. It does lots of very strange stuff about bunging assets in various places that we're self-happy with. So yeah, I think the more common use case now would be that you deploy your front-end serverlessly. So I think that choosing the serverless approach versus the serverless full approach, given that it's pretty, you know, we provide an adapter to build a serverless full version anyway, the node adapter, I think it's probably the right decision to build it as agnostic as possible, but fundamentally serverless first. Yeah, Yeah, I had the same issue with the Begin adapter. Basically, the Begin provides things like it uses Architect underneath and it provides a bunch of stuff that gives you a whole sort of infrastructure language. And it has key release tools and things like that And the Architect sandbox is how they recommend you develop apps But it very at least I couldn do it anyway is to get the Architect Sandbox to run your SvelteKit app in dev mode and then serve it up in dev mode It was the same with Vasell, actually, because Vasell also have their local dev ends, and it didn't work very well with Sapper. It often didn't work at all, actually. I haven't tried it with SvelteKit, but I imagine it's quite the same. I guess we need something that's compatible with all these different tools, and that's going to be quite difficult, I think. That's very tedious. So I actually have a feature request up and I think Rich Harris actually commented two days ago, which is pretty interesting. So this might get implemented. So I basically asked for adapters to modify the dev mode functionality. It seems like this is pretty common. So I'll speak for Netlify Dev. Netlify also injects things for authentication and serverless functionality into its functions that SvelteKit just doesn't emulate. Basically, we're discovering that every platform has its own emulation service. You don't want to debug by deploying. It's a very slow process, and it's something that I've learned very painfully over my time at Netlify. So I think it's possible to offer hooks for these local emulators to hook into SvelteKit or SvelteKit to hook into the other things. I think we should probably work it out. I think it's a good idea. I think it's difficult because you've really got to get all the vendors to agree on a familiar API or build those mappings yourself in adapters, which is quite a lot of work. I think also, well, I was just going to say that I think that if you look at these services that are provided and injected and stuff, I think those are the competitive edge of these services. And so they do something weird and wonderful that is very specific to their service. So whether they want that to become a generic thing so that anyone can start up their own serverless platform and just contribute to this API and inject their own stuff is a big question. I think, thinking about this strategically, Sveltecate doesn't have a choice. It's effectively become a serverless framework and you're promising to deploy to serverless platforms. So for the time being,

 SvelteKit has to adapt to the reality of each platform. Yeah, one of my projects, I'm basically, like, the way I'm making it work is, like, in my hooks.js, I globally polyfill, like, the Cloudflare stuff, like, so that it exists in my dev environment. environment. So, like, but that brings its own problems because it's not being done at SvelteKit core. Like, you can't, it's not early enough that, like, I can use certain functionality inside the hooks.js itself. I can only guarantee that because hooks.js does run before everything else. But I can only guarantee that for everything else, the global polyfills are there, but I can't guarantee it for hooks itself. so there is a limitation to that approach and of course you just have this huge ugly if block in your hooks that's like if this is dev mode then do all this unnecessary stuff that's really just to emulate it I can't talk for any other platforms because I only really studied one of them and that one being begin but I know that what it does is it pulls in these things from virtual packages that are provided at runtime but they're not they don't really exist so you kind of get like at architect slash shared and you import that and you import their stuff from it like you report the database connection from that and that is going to be quite difficult to do at runtime because it's literally it's a virtual import isn't it sorry is it a virtual import like it's i it's a good question i don't know it's something you can import and if you do it locally those packages would need to be kind of built and exist already maybe maybe that's actually quite feasible but yeah it's going to be loads of different approaches like that that would give us the stuff you need so let's hope let's hope this this is something that happens yeah i actually i only checked up on the issue because you guys talked about it uh so now that i see there's some progress i might actually try to implement this thing exciting yeah the other thing the other thing that i think um you know we're talking so much about serverless, we're not actually doing, as far as I understand, and please correct me if I'm wrong, we're not actually doing serverless right. Um, we're, Svelkit basically deploys to a FAT function and runs all the routing out of a single function Whereas is that correct Yeah that correct So yeah initially the plan was like okay let just work with this single function for now like because it the easiest way to implement it and like maybe implement root splitting but then one one of the well one issue with root splitting is that then your code isn't running you're guaranteed you you know you you now no longer have to guarantee that your code is running on the same function. Because if you hit two separate routes, you might have two different functions. It might be running on two different edge, whatever that's called, like the lambdas. So state might be an issue. And the other thing is once we implemented fallthrough routes, it became nigh impossible to kind of split out the roots because now you need to be able, every root needs to be able to fall through to the next one, to the next one, to the next one. You can extract some very specific root patterns. Maybe if you don't use any slug roots, then maybe you could optimize it that way. But as soon as you introduce any fall through roots, it's a lot more complex to be doing root splitting. And yeah, so like, it doesn't, I'm not sure how you would split the functions, um, logically without like having, putting that overhead on a user, like, Hey, like you, you need to declare what, uh, what roots belong to what function. And then, then it starts becoming way less agnostic. And the other problem. I think also. Yeah. Sorry, can I? Oh yeah. And the other problem, of course, is like then it might not be supported for all serverless platforms because now you're making some assumptions about the platform. Like, for example, like how many, like, let's say there are limits on the platform that are per lambda. Like you can only do 50 lambdas. like if you if you had like 51 roots now you can't deploy your location because it's a split into 51 lambdas like i think it's a weird workers yeah cloud flow workers has a like uh max of 50 i don remember i think the cell does too and and and that that a weird thing because um what happened was i think when you say truly serverless so the notion of root splitting being truly serverless one function per root quite disciplined that level of root splitting came about via Next.js. And I think the reason they did it is because when the Next build was built, the roots were actually too big to run inside a Lambda, given the limitations they wanted, like memory size and megabyte payload size and stuff. and so that came out of something that was almost like an infrastructure concern and then now what you've got is that you look at look at felt and we we had a discussion about this in the maintainer chat and basically i think we found that the overhead from just sticking everything in one big function for most apps was very much negligible you could you barely made any difference at all right i think that would be the ideal answer uh which is which is this fall this whole light wave anyway that we don't run into those issues of scale for a very long time and of course there's you run into the issue that like the lambdas have this whole idea of like cold starts and like now if you split out your functions now now it's no longer that your entire site is in is in memory it's like parts of your site are in memory the other parts aren't and as your user navigates around you you hit that cold start over and over and over and over unless you're really to never hit a cold start. Right, that can be a bit of a source of FUD. So you actually want to split it up because of cold starts. It takes longer to cold start something when your function is bigger. That's why you don't want a big function or a fat function. It's true, but isn't there some metrics in that, right? Because if your lambda is quite small anyway with all the roots in it, there's always going to be a baseline cold start time. that time is always going down. We're scared of big cold starts. We're not scared of small cold starts. And if you keep your functions small, the cold starts are basically negligible, which is why it's very much the recommended way for things to deploy and begin. One other thing I'll respond to your other concerns raised is that atomic deploys of functions are very much a solved problem. So you can be relatively assured that if one version of a function is deployed that talks to another function it also talking to the same version as of deployment So that is a concern of a lot of people and they have solved atomic deployment The other thing about routing, I would actually think about some smart edge solutions. So basically routing at the edge with like fly.io or Cloudflare workers, and those things will help implement the programmatic fall-through thing. But I understand that it's difficult. So anyway, I just wanted to raise it because I feel like people don't really are surprised when it's a big fat function. And then they're like, is this serverless or not? Like you're essentially running a server out of a Lambda. It's an interesting one because actually I think that one thing I noticed when I started using Vercel first is that I think they do use that edge routing. So they've got a router that's like a single bundle and they pass off to the functions that that bundle addresses. because their routing, and I think to this day it's still true, their routing stuff is on Google Cloud Platform and the deployment, the actual Lambdas are running on AWS. Oh, that's weird. Yeah, it's very odd. All right. What do you guys think? Should we move on to another topic? Yeah, that was really good. Oh, yeah, for sure. I think probably the biggest blocker was just like fall through right now. Like, so it's like, it's a, it's a weird position where it's like, maybe not a lot of people are using it right now, but it's affecting like how we can like, you know, because now, now you've placed a limitation where like this, you know, like obviously it needs to be supported in the final deployment as well, whether you're deploying to serverless or node or well, So static doesn't really matter. But yeah. All right. So what's happening in Veetland? Maybe you know, because I have no idea what's going on in Veetland. So Veet, we basically have like, so the way Svelte maintainer chat works is like we do a call every month. For Veet, it's every two weeks. So it's a lot faster. And I guess like it's a lot more organized because like we do have like stuff to bring up on the meeting. It's like, okay, here are the PRs for stuff that need to be talked about. Like here's priority five PRs, priority four PRs. Like it started in a priority order. And then also talk about, you know,

 big issues like, for example, like the most recent one being SSR handling, which very much affects Velpkit in that like there's a bunch of dependencies that don't currently work in Vite or like they require a lot of finagling to make work. For example, Vite3 has a cyclic dependency problem because like they, which like Vite can't handle, but like technically node itself. can handle just fine. And then there's also issues with like the AWS SDK where they're using really weird package layouts that work with webpack only. Like, so they've, they're doing stuff like, here's a package. I have more sub packages in the package and they have their own package.json, but the top level package.json doesn't actually tell you any of the contents of the sub packages. so like you have to like go traverse you have to basically resolve the package.json files in the way webpack does it so the way v does it is that it just looks at the top level package.json but the way webpack does it is that it looks at the closest webpack.json the closest package.json which means it's a lot slower because it has to go here's the closest one go up one here's the next closest one, go up one directory, here's the next closest one, et cetera. And there's been some, like, until we get that implemented, there's also been some, we've also been wondering whether that's part of the slowness of Webpack as well. Like that resolution scheme where it's like, well, you have, now you have to have to traverse the whole tree just to support this really edge case setup. Maybe we can hope that AWS changed their setup. That's the thing, right? Usually the dependencies that aren't compatible are usually written by big companies. It's usually the big companies, because they're big companies, they kind of just do whatever they want. And something relatively small, like compared to Webpack, Vite's really small user base. It's like, why should we care that this specific bundler doesn't work with our setup? It works on Webpack and we using Webpack So it very hard to convince It not even just one author right It's the fact that it's a whole company means that there's hundreds of thousands or thousands of people writing it. So there's not really one person you can talk to. You can open an issue, but it's probably not going to go anywhere. Whereas with smaller dependencies, you can either talk to the author, and they'll probably have some sort of response. Or you can even fork it because it's a small enough library that it's easy to fork and fix the issue. So it's like... Is that US SDK? Is that open source? It is, but the problem is the kind of things that you need to change are infrastructure level enough that you probably need approval from whoever is higher up on the chain of developers. So it's not like we can just... We can't create a PR to change it, but it's like they're going to be like, why are you changing it? I'm not suggesting that at all. What I'm suggesting is, what if we were to make our own branch, like not say we, but someone who is really invested in this, would make their own rebundled version of it from the source code. You know, you could automate that job perhaps, stick your own rollout files, and I would offer it and fix it that way. I think if I had something that was around like that... Honestly, at that point, I think it would be much easier to make a lightweight AWS client. Yeah. Like, honestly, like, one, it would be much more maintainable because you're not working with this huge monolithic code base. Two, it's like, then you can sort of optimize for, like, specific use cases. Like, for example, if you're optimizing for cloud cloud workers, which is obvious, which is a thing. Like, you can, like, the fact that you can guarantee that certain things exist, like, for example, the web crypto API exists, and then fetch exists and whatever means that, like, you can, you can make your module specific to that environment and, like, not have to bring in useless dependencies that just blow up your bundle, or even worse, make it not work on that. make it not work on that service. For example, ZupaBase brings in several layers deep in its dependency. It brings in crossfetch, which is a problem on Cloudify workers because you not running a node You running v8 It doesn have any of the node It doesn have the node environment So by assuming that it in a node environment you've also sort of screwed yourself into a position where you can't deploy to this specific... You can't deploy to Cloudify Workers if you use Supabase unless you do a bunch of dents like replacing sneakily replacing crossfetch out for you know our sveltekit global fetch which you can do but it's a lot it's not something you think to do as an end user yeah and right i guess i guess it started also out as like you did ask like what's going on in vland is like there's so right now we're trying to get ssr so right now ssr is actually marked experimental but which is a big blocker for a lot of people who are like we can't use this because it's smart experimental when can you make it stable and so yeah the like the biggest roadblock to making it stable is making most dependencies work out of the box without having the user having to like mess around with configs and what uh and like whatever except for of course niche use cases that makes sense all right so uh i think we should probably move on to unpopular opinions i i um struggled again this week amazingly i'm obviously happy i'm too happy and content with everything yeah yeah so i see sean you you have one here sorry i was muted yeah i um i figured i would come up with something just because like we haven't had unpopular opinions in a while and I think these are always good debates. So this is a two-layer unpopular opinion. Are you ready? The first layer is that people underrate SEO or companies underrate SEO compared to social media. And I think it's generally true that a lot of people as well, they try to get attention by spreading their content, getting readers via social media means and building followers or whatever through social media. I think, and something that really convinced me was it's like a two-factor thing. There's a lot of people just searching for content and will never see you through social. So SEO is underrated there And also it an evergreen thing Once you rank for something you probably will rank for quite a while and that will drive a lot more traffic than your social media posts, which are like a one-off one-time event, uh, issue or essentially one-time event. And actually most of your followers don't even see, uh, your posts, uh, because like just the, the platforms tend to restrict your, how much, how much of your followers can actually see it. So I think just in general, something I've been really thinking about is how to basically get attention for something that you think deserves attention, like a Svelte or like a Temporal or whatever thing you currently happen to be working on. I think SEO is probably underrated for the majority of cases. So that's the first layer of opinion. And if you're interested in more, basically I have a tweet thread on why that is, which is funny enough because I don't do much SEO myself apart from blogging. But the thing about the second layer on popular opinion is that I think the rules flip for developer tools. So social media becomes more important than SEO for developer tools, mainly because we don't find our solutions by searching. We find out about Svelte. and Vite, basically entirely through word of mouth. It has to do well on Hacker News, which is a form of social media. It has to do well in Stack Overflow developer surveys, which isn't a form of social media, but probably everyone who filled it out was influenced by social media. So ironically, developers are much more influenced by other people, other developers than Google search results because we just don't Google like, hey, I need a new framework. No, you don't do that. You just hear about a new framework from a friend. Yeah, yeah. I think that's probably true. But I think also that we search for different things, right? When you're using like a search engine and you're searching for something like how to integrate LibraryX with Svelte or something like that, right? Whereas, yeah, I guess it makes sense, yeah. Like lower layer how-tos are definitely driven by SEO, right? Like, you're not going to tweet it. I like, no, no one's really going to care. Like, you know, how to solve this out there. Like, it doesn't matter. But yeah, SEO probably drives a lot more traffic. I was going to disagree with the first point, but then you brought up the second point and

 I think it mostly falls into the second point where I see a lot of people in SvelteKit kind of asking, if I don't care about SEO, I don't need SSR, right? And then so it usually starts like that. Like, can I turn off SSR just to get this thing working? Because I think SSR is the problem. I don't need it. I just want an SBA. and I think in that sense I was going to say in developer circles at least SEO is almost overrated it's almost like because it's like they think it's the only reason you need SSR almost it's like performance too but there's other things it becomes the thing that people think about when they're saying okay why do I need SSR because SEO It almost becomes the go-to answer to the point that people have flipped it around. Well, I don't need SSO, so I don't need SSR. So why are you forcing SSR on me? Why is this thing SSR first? I mean, for me, the SSR and SEO thing, yeah, I see the same question. And I tell people it's not about SEO. It's like that's the one very small part of what SSR is and why it exists. but I think it's a weird one because it's also I think we might mention it on the podcast I found it in Google or something but there's a site called EmptyStates so EmptyStats.es I think it is and it's just a visual display of all the different empty states from websites and I haven't been able to figure out whether it's saying that these empty states are cool and they're really nice to look at or whether it's saying that empty states are bad look you use them on your content but there will always be a time when a user of your system will go to a page that hasn't yet loaded its data because you're not using SSR and they're looking at an empty screen where they want to see the data and it's delaying their thought process it's delaying their click and it's delaying them doing what they need to do because you're showing a blank screen and loading data in the valuable time where they're sat there in front of it and I think that alone should be the reason that everyone should be using SSR and no one should be using SPAs and except for in some very niche situations just because looking at a screen that says nothing to see yet or we're loading your data, no one needs to do that, right? Just serve them up the page. Yeah that a common counter argument I hear also Like what if it takes too long to SSR And like I rather show a loading page instead just to tell the user that hey this is loading Because you can do that. You can show a loading icon somewhere, but what you can do is continue to show the user on the screen the data they were looking at before they clicked. Right? They're still having stuff that they can take in and use that's useful to them, perhaps. Right. And I think that's probably why people are asking, like, why doesn't SpellTel versus React Suspense alternate, like, stuff? But, like, React Suspense is, like, it's, like, if you've used Rootify, there's sort of something similar, but it's kind of hacky in that, like, it's, like, it kind of has, like, a timeout delay where, like, if your SSR doesn't finish in time, basically just send an SBA to the user. is roughly what I was like. We'll grill them about that on the next podcast. Yeah. We'll say, what is it? We're going to have them on Thursday. So we'll see if we can ask them something. They probably know better how it works. So like, yeah. So like, there's that. But like, I do think, I don't think React suspense is the right answer either. So like, there was like a thread on this on the Svelte subreddit, like where it's like, there was some discussion about, you know, why doesn't Svelte have this? And would it be useful if Svelte had this? People ask the wrong questions. They ask the wrong questions, don't they? I think you nailed there exactly. They're saying, where's Svelte suspense? What the question is, what are you trying to do? And let's work back from there and figure out what you need in order to achieve that. Right. And I think a more sensible solution might be, and I'm not saying this is the only solution. It's like maybe, okay, work on partial hydration. And it's like, then you can send, here's a skeleton, not just a skeleton, but here's all the static stuff on your page. Here's most of the data we've already loaded quickly. And now maybe some part of your, maybe you know some part of your page is going to load slowly and then you can just partially hydrate that part. So right now SvelteKit doesn't have that, right? You either have your entire page is pre or sorry you have either your entire page is static or your entire page has to be hydrated which sucks a lot for something like blogs where you're using, say, MDSVX to import Markdown. And then you have to, but you'd have a little bit of interaction on your page. Let's say your navigation bar. If you want your navigation bar to work, you need to enable hydration. But if you enable hydration, You also have this 60 kilobyte hydration code just for the blog post because it's marked out, which is really stupid. And I have no idea how, like right now, with the current tools that we have, like that's not in SvelteKit core. Like how would an end user solve that? Because you can or because someone else has it in their framework or library or whatever doesn't mean that you should. And I think Rich is very good at understanding that, right? Rich, I think, applies that to everything that he looks at. All right. Yeah. We'll see what happens in the future. All right. So any other unpopular opinions? Nope. Apart from everything I say, yes. All right. Let's move to picks then. I can go first. Mine is a new terminal called War. warp yeah it's a terminal it's made in rust apparently and it has some pretty nifty features where you can like copy blocks of code and you can share them instantly you just like upload them online you can share like a url and people can see the the error with all of the colors and all that fancy stuff it's pretty nice it's very fast only available on mac at the moment unfortunately Oh, come on. Wait, it's made in Rust, but it's not cross-platform? That's surprising to hear. I guess it uses a lot of the Apple UIKit stuff for the UI, I guess. I don't think it does. I think it's just a matter of them wanting to build something. You need an invite to be able to download it. So like Clubhouse, then? Yeah. Yeah, and we all know how Clubhouse worked out. Yeah, right. Actually great for those that use it. I mean, initially it did. I literally just understalled it from my phone now I just can be bothered Yeah but the thing about this the thing about your usage is that you are always going to be a tourist So you are not Clubhouse core audience It's true. It's true. They have opened up out of beta, and they have something like 10 million users since mid-May and 500,000 rooms per day, even today. Wow. So they're not dead. No, they're not dead. They're not dead. You just see a lot of this. No, no, no, no. They're not dead outside, but they're kind of... So it's not dead inside, but it's really weird where it's like, at least as a user that just got into it, it's like, why are there so many crypto groups? It's a very specific niche of people in... like a huge a huge part of the audience used to be like people in silicon valley doing silicon valley stuff like crypto and it's just like well i uh it's a bit hard to get into that like if you're not already into that kind of topic i ended up in like a real estate zone somehow loads of real estate talks i didn't mind actually they're quite interesting but like what pretty amazing any any other picks uh yeah i mean i think uh anthony had a pick or i can go i had i had one i'm gonna skip it because i think mine's quite quite involved and it's uh it's getting lungs already so all right i'll do a quick pick i've been playing spider-man miles morales i played the original spider-man maybe two years ago and then miles morales came out which is like a sequel based on the exact same map but they just have more content and i just i'm a huge fan of maus morales just because i he is such an interesting new take on the spider-man character and the the the plus the the a plus sign for me is essentially like basically at the end of the the game you get a special suit called the bodega cat suit and in it you wear a backpack with a cat in it and the cat just goes around with you solving crime uh and there's this finisher where you take down the bad guy and then the cat comes on and scratches it to deal the finishing blow. And it's just amazing. That's it. Is it for PS5? Yeah, PS4, PS5. You can do both. Grigor, do you have a... A pick? Well...

 You don't have to pick one. I've been looking at monitors recently, and there's so many variants, and you have to be really careful with... For example, yes, there are paper specs that you can look at, but there's a lot that the paper specs are inaccurate about. For example, refresh... Not refresh rate. Was it gray to gray? how fast a pixel changes from one gray color to another gray color. That's apparently often they're basically lying on the spec sheet. They'll say 1ms G2G switch times. But it turns out if in the review it actually is a lot longer and so maybe it says like oh this can run up to 144 hertz but turns out uh but actually it can't because um the delay between switching pixels is longer than the time it takes uh between uh like how fast you need to be 444 hertz so there is that like there like i have to worry about as well like there like turns out there like a bunch of ways you can make monitors Like there twisted pneumatic there IPS there VA there's OLED, but like OLED isn't really a thing for monitors. Apparently like you can get TVs, but they're going to be huge. So like, yeah, it shouldn't, it shouldn't be because don't OLED have problems like about burning stuff. Yeah. There's, I don't know if there's that. So is, is your pick picking monitors instead of meta thing? I guess like, I mean, I, I did, I, I did end up with a choice, but it was more like out of necessity of like, okay, like, let's balance these requirements. It's like, rather than like a true pick, I guess it was more like, okay, I need, I am looking for something that's like at least 120 Hertz. I'm looking for 144 P 40, 1440p and it's like maybe ultra wide screen I don't know we'll see so your pick is the comparison process of choosing a monitor I quite like that that's kind of my level of meta for picks alright I think that's it for us thank you for joining us thank you all and yeah we'll see you all next time bye