 So, yeah, great to be here. I'll be talking about a brief history of prototyping, creating the web piece by piece. Oh, and I should switch back to the slides. So first a little bit about myself. So who is this guy who's standing right in front of you? I'm a husband and father of four kids. I'm originally a mechatronics guy, did technical school for mechatronics, but then made my passion into my job, which is the web. I'm currently a web enthusiast at Woom. I'm also a musician because having four kids and a full-time job is not enough. And I'm also, because this is not enough, I'm also one of the founders of Swell Society Vienna. Or short, Vienna, which we're at at the moment. So why prototype? It is usually to learn a lesson before we jump into a huge project. We want to see fast results when we prototype. and we want to fail on a smaller scale so maybe to see if if something functions before before we create a bigger thing we might create a small model and test our model and our hypothesis before we do the full-fledged version and we prototype so that we don't get hurt later on So, in the days of old of the internet, it was simple and easy. The way we did our prototyping was we had our HTML file on our computer and we opened it in the web browser. Awesome. Simple. Yeah, open in a browser. And then if everything was fine, we uploaded it via FTP. So the cool thing is I even looked at FTP first web browser before there was the web. And then in the gold rush of the web, we had it got a little bit more complicated. We had styles, a lot more complexity. I mean, styles is tricky enough with CSS, but we needed client-side interactivity. We needed more frameworks. We needed more frameworks for those frameworks. Like for our styling, we needed frameworks for styling for our frameworks that we use. And we needed complex local setups wire all those complex things together so a lot of tools come from that golden rush of the web which we're i think currently towards the end of maybe where we're slowly working towards a simpler and slimmer svelter future of the web so what is the svelte way in that prototyping because we saw like local setup can be really really bad and complicated i don't know how many of you worked with webpack back in the day and then had to upgrade webpack version and all help broke loose so what is the svelte way with svelte 3 at the latest point maybe before that but i wasn't a sveltean before that there is the svelte the famous svelte grapple where you can try out components in the browser and the cool thing is it sends a request to the server it sends back the um the code the javascript code and it gets executed and you get your little preview inside of the browser and you can even take a look at what the compiler returns to you so this works pretty nicely to work in a web ide you have some simple um intellisense and all of that stuff so that's great but then along comes svelte kit well that really hard to do in a repo where you kind of limited to your base route and yeah hooks of authentication and server side like that not really working so the svelte team introduced learn.svelte.dev which was a really cool and interactive way to learn svelte and svelte kit and to have the the combination of learning the the basics of the svelte framework first and then diving into the svelte kit fundamentals and like getting an understanding of how the svelte framework server side and all of those things how they come together and form this like nice application that we can work with and deploy to the web so the story didn't really end there so once upon a time there was a svelte hackathon and there was one of the winners there was Svelte Lab. And this is what inspired the talk today. And yeah, I wanted to like give a little introduction on how prototyping can work in our current day and time in Svelte. So Svelte has a Svelte lab has a lot of features like dark, light mode for us crazy developers. We have command palette, just picking out a few. It has TypeScript support. It has its own Svelte icons. It installs packages. It has Wim key bindings for those crazy guys among us. And it even has a CLI and it can import GitHub projects. and of course when you're done prototyping you want to download your project so i brought franz with me again now demo time look at the how now sorry yeah Yeah. So I prepared a little bit. So you can see, this is the Hello Basic template of Svelte Lab. So you have on the left, you have all of your files, like you would have in your normal IDE. You have your code editor, pretty similar to VS Code. You have IntelliSense, you have type checking, you have formatting. And on the right, you have your little preview. Yeah, and on the bottom here, you have again your small little feature set again. And yeah, let's hide that away for now. And we can see that it's already running on this port and it's available here and we can have a lot of stuff that we can toggle. We can hide away the CLI if we want to, but we could also kind of kill the dev server and install some more packages like GCEP or something like that for nice animations. to have a bigger thing. And the cool thing is, this is not, as we had in the Svelte REPL, it's not sending requests to the server, and the server then compiles the code and sends back the finished compilation. This is kind of the, this is the development server running inside of your browser. So you're kind of running Node inside of V8, like a very small version of Node. But it works really well as a dev server. And that's like you're running some binaries and hooking up all those different things. And that's actually pretty cool and pretty amazing. So as I kind of promised that this will be a short talk, I just wanted to do one more little thing. Let's just here for a bit. Oh, yeah. so I also mentioned that we can open oh come on perfect verification code yeah we can log into we can open GitHub projects and then work on them and prototype away Almost there. Easy cheesy. So I'm just copying over the GitHub URL. So pasting in, removing the HTTPS. Yeah, we wanna leave. So now behind the scenes, we're kind of cloning the repository and setting up our local environment, our dev environment inside of the browser with all of the files that we have. And what we will see in a moment will be, this is all fine side. Yeah, so we see it's booting up the web container, mounting the file system, installing dependencies, like all of the good stuff that we know from a local development. We even have like NPM install running there. So it's pretty, pretty cool. That it's really great that Svelte is so small that it, let's imagine if we would do that with a next application. and it's starting up the dev server and you can see our shiny new design of the website and no fonts yeah that's probably because of the web container yeah happens so there are some limitations yeah it's just fonts don't tell it to your designer um yeah some logo is missing But I mean, all in all for prototyping, this is amazing to kind of start off with your repository, have your starting point and then jump into your idea, try it out. And if it works, it's cool. You can do that on the way with some browser-based tablet if you are crazy. I don't think so, no. So this is just running inside of the your your application pretty much, but the thing that you could do is download and then do whatever git magic you want to. yeah you have shortcuts yeah new width template set default yeah not really i mean if you yeah yeah i mean yeah probably what you could do is like log into your github and then create the branch there but like develop here and when you're done with your component or whatever copy the stuff over so it is checked in and you can care take care about it later on no i don't think so because it's calling the github api without any authentication svelte lab inception That's actually a great question. I haven't tried that one off. Yeah, and I don't wanna crash anything at the moment. Maybe we try it out after. Yeah so there is a lot of stuff that you can do It amazing for prototyping um the the two guys who like ramped it up in i don't know how many weeks like that's that's kind of crazy what they did in that amount of time yeah and i just wanted to show off of their work and kind of give back a huge thanks because it has such a great impact on a community. So this was the very short talk with a very short demo time. So hashtag done. I'm happy that you were here and participated in the talk. Yeah, you can find the talk and some resource links and the slides on my website. and I'm happy to take any questions. Thank you. Is this loading runtime? Yes, so the web container thing, it's the same. um it's using yeah under the hood it's using stack blitz and the first step in that process was building learn.svelte.def and they build upon upon all of the learnings that they had in that project and just took it a notch up No, it's encapsulated. But it... yeah there is here yeah connect to project so stack blitz yeah probably because i'm in incognito i think there is some limitation with ecognito yeah should probably not have chosen to show svelte lab in the computer um if it's as collide or something like that yeah yeah yeah and of course I don't think that I mentioned it when you're logged in you can also kind of save your projects I don't know where they end up but no it's connected to a github account somehow yeah when oh yeah when you save it it's connected to a github account because you have to log in to save but you can also download it then it's just zip file I think PHP server running in the browser. So it's a PHP project in the browser, without the server. So mainly the one is the WordPress instance running directly in the browser, and we just will play in my app with . And for . So you can do that on doing . Yeah, think of the possibilities. yeah but that's actually a great point maybe we can abuse this a little bit to really do server-side rendering on the client because the latency is amazing it is the case here but like hide hide the container away and then kind of preload some assets from the server and then do yeah we need a framework for that yeah yeah any more questions good then thank you so much for listening uh