 Thank you. Hello everyone. Thank you very much for having me today. I'll be talking about unlocking developer superpowers with SvelteKit. And that is because I do believe in fact that SvelteKit gives you superpowers. And you will see how just very shortly. Developing with SvelteKit means that you can do more with less. And that means you can write more code with fewer lines of code. It means you can spend less energy and consequently less time when you're building applications with SvelteKit. I'll generally be talking about this topic under the general theme of the best of both worlds, which is something that I think that SvelteKit gives you out of the box. All right, let's go into it. My name is Ekene Eze. I'm at Kenny underscore IO on Twitter and pretty much everywhere else on social media. I work as a developer experience engineer at Netlify, and I have a YouTube channel where I create Jamstack tutorials, view development tutorials, NoxJS, basically all the things that I know about web development using JavaScript, Nox, Jamstack technologies, and so on. So if those kind of things interest you, please do take a look and let me know if you have any questions or feedback. Moving on, what you will learn today, what I want to be talking about through the course of this presentation is what is SvelteKit and what's really different about it. I mean, there are other tools and technologies out there that we could possibly be building web applications with. But what is SvelteKit? Why should you care? We'll be talking about that and why I'm particularly so excited about it. You might have already noticed that I'm very excited about using SvelteJS and SvelteKit to build applications. And I'll dig into all of that. I will also be talking about how it improves your life as a software engineer and as a developer because there are some things that available in SvelteKit that I think might be lacking in other places right We'll talk about all of that. You will also be learning what superpowers you're going to get with SvelteKit. So that's a fun one. And how to extend SvelteKit to like use serverless functions and all of those things that are not available by default. Also, I want this friendship on screen right now. I want it. All right. So let's get started with what is SvelteKit. I'm sure if you take a look at the SvelteKit documentation, you will see a definition that says that it's a framework for building high-performance web applications, right? That's what it is. And I think it's a very simple and straightforward definition that anyone can relate to as far as knowing what a framework is and knowing what building high-performance web applications are. And moving forward, how does it do that? I mean, we've heard just now that it's a framework that helps you build high-performance web applications, but how does it help you do that? The first one is it uses VIT under the hood to give you access to build optimizations like CSS code splitting, async chunk loading optimizations, and so on and so forth. It also gives you access to prefetching pages, right? Which means you can prefetch the contents of your page before your users get to that page. So getting content ahead of time, making it readily available before users ask for them. It's an amazing feature to have. It has hot model reloading with state preservation. It has offline support if you're using service workers. and it has multiple rendering modes. Like you can get things like SSR, CSR, SSG all out of the box. And how does it then empower you? I mean, with all these features that we've seen, it's impressive, but how does it translate to something that would help you supercharge your productivity as a developer and help you do more in less time like we talked about or give you powers that you would not really not have from somewhere else? simple it does that by providing you all the different ways of doing things and letting you then choose what works for you right like I mentioned before some other technologies would go all in on SSR some would go in on CSR and all of that Some would say SSG statically generates everything But that's not the case with SvertKit because it gives you all of the options and then just lets you pick what's best for you and roll with it. It also doesn't assume that you know that they know better and therefore enforce any choices on you. That's amazing. I like when I have the option to, you know, consider all the available options. Let me have access to it so that if I decide to go a different way, I'm able to do that. So with respect to that, some of the this or that things that some other frameworks might make you choose that SvelteKit doesn't really make you choose, they kind of like just give you everything, right? and just the choice is up to you and I find that to be really powerful. For instance, CSR, SSR or SSG like I talked about, this framework doesn't force any one of these on you, but it kind of like gives you everything as we will see. I'll talk more about this very soon. Static or dynamic, you don't also have to choose one of that. You can go with both or pick one. It's all, you can mix as much as you want. Developer experience or user experience, you don't have to choose. It's all available to you by default. So let's take a closer look at the first one. So one thing I really like about Svetkit is the fact that you have access to both CSR experience and SSR experience on the same application, right? Because you can server-side render your Svetkit applications, meaning that you have access to optimizations, to SEO optimizations, because search engines can properly index your site and have it crawled and indexed properly. So you have all the benefits of a good SEO optimized web application. But then also it gives you access to client-side navigation, which means you can navigate through your web application without triggering a full page reload across all your applications. So once again, best of both worlds, right? You have the SSR experience. Your SwetKit application is optimized for SEO, but you also have client-side routing, which makes your navigation just the same experience as you would expect in a typical single page application. Then it also gives you pre-rendering and SSG, like all these multiple rendering modes are available to you for you to mix and match and choose whatever works for you And the best thing is it all available on a per page basis which means you can decide to render your first page as a CSR second page SSR You can pre-render some pages. You can statically generate some pages or even the entire app. So it's totally all up to you. And that is something I find to be really amazing about VertKit. And the next thing is developer experience, right? I mean, SvertKit offers a very productive and satisfied developer experience. And it does that for me in my own experience, having worked with SvertKit for a bit, is when I'm building products with SvertKit, my experience is fantastic, right? I have adapters, for instance, that I'm done building my application and I want to deploy this SvertKit application. I have adapters that will automatically help me that are natively supported and help me like get my application to people to start using as quickly as possible. So they have Netlify adapters, for instance, that could help you deploy your Svetkit applications in like seconds and minutes, right? It has API routes as well, which is something that has become kind of like really popular lately. I mean, we see it in Nox 3 that just came out. We saw it in NextGIC has always been there. And that's something that I think developers like a lot because it gives you the ability to use things like middlewares, create API logic, have it within your SvirtKit application. You can make requests to it. You can send your responses. It's a superpower. I mean, it is, right? You can also use serverless functions, as I will show you later in the presentation, in your SvirtKit application. You have hot motor reloading, Vids, reactive variables, dynamic routing, all these things that modern day development brings to us that kind of like helps make our work as developers easier because we expect to have access to these features and they are all available to you using SvelteKit. But then you don't have to sacrifice your user's experience, right? Like I said, you don't have to choose this or that. You can have everything and then just architect it however you want to suit your own needs. Because as we've seen, we have like really good developer experience when you're working with SwerveKit, but you also have amazing user experience. I mean, with all this...

 functional enhancements that are available in SvelteKit, your users will have a stellar experience, irrespective of the fact that developers are having a good experience building with that tool. So you have access to prefetched pages, which means your users can get access to the content of your site even before they get there. So there's no loading bars or spinners or waiting for content to load and all of that. You have client-side routing, which means no full page reloads when you navigate from one page to another page in your SvertKit application. Users definitely like that and it gives them a good experience. You have server-side rendered pages, you have fast times interaction and all of that available to you out of the box. Once again, the best of both worlds. And let's talk about the last one, static and dynamic, right? Sites built with SvertKit can be hosted without a dynamic web server, which means you have access to all the benefits of your regular Jamstack application. But that doesn't also mean that you have to sacrifice dynamic functionalities in your service kit application just because you want to generate some pages statically, right? You can use the API routes that we talked about to do some API things, make API calls, fetch data, respond to your clients, and all that. If you even want to take it a step further, you can go ahead and use serverless function providers like Netlify, for instance, to create more enriching experiences for your users, which is something that I'm really looking forward to showing you all in a minute. We'll just go ahead and create a simple Svetkit application, add some Netlify functions to it and deploy it to Netlify. And then we'll just test that function to show you that it works. And I will also show you why that might be a good idea, why you would want to consider doing something like that, because I know that Svetkit gives you API routes by default, so it might not make sense to use serverless functions. because you already have API routes. But I just have a few reasons that I will show you as well why you might want to consider going that route. Okay, so this is the SvelteKit documentation. And I'm sure if we go to getting started, we should see all the instructions on how to start up a new SvelteKit application. So I'm just going to do that and do npm in it. Svelte next And I going to call it SvelteKit SvelteKit what now? Let's do Netlify functions. Functions. All right. Install that. do the skeleton project, no TypeScript, no ESLint, no Pretia, and we're good. So now I can change into my SvelteKit Netlify functions folder and open that up in VS Code. All right. So if I run this SvelteKit app, what's the command to run it? Oh my God. I'm getting so many things in view here. Let's get this out of the way. Actually, I can close this up entirely and just use the integrated terminal. Pull that up. Command to run it is npm run dev. So let's do npm run dev. Oh, no, no. I have to install first. Clear this and do npm install, I think. Yeah, definitely NPM install before you run the development server. Okay. Now that that is done, I think we can run the development server. Localhost 3000. I think it is running now. So let's do localhost 3000 and welcome to SvelteKit. Good. So our application is running as expected. What I want to do now is go ahead and show you how to add Netlify functions to this small SvelteKit application. So the first thing I want to do is install the Netlify SvelteKit adapter. I'll use PNP to install the adapter, but you can also do like yarn add. right Oh sorry You can add like this but I going to go ahead and just paste in the installation using PNP and install it as a development dependency as a dev dependency So while that is going on I going to go ahead and create a Netlify file which is where I will put all my Netlify configurations. All right. And what we need to put inside this file is just the configurations that will tell Netlify how to treat this project. Wait, I'm not sure this is installing correctly. Hang on. Oh, my God, I didn't stop this from running. So just paste this again and click on that. Yeah, now it's working. All right, in our Tommel file, let's do the build. To say the command to run when you're building this site for production should be npm run build. Right. And then the publish directory should also be built. All right. While we are in development mode, the command to run should be SvelteKit no I think it's verb-kit and then dev it's probably that one I'll check the package.json file just to be sure and where is the script yes it's this one so that's correct alright then I want to specify where I want my functions to be functions what am I doing? Okay. And then I'll specify a directory for the functions. So I'll just say, let's put it in Netlify slash functions. This is not optional. This is where you should be putting your Netlify functions in. Well, in any project that you want to add Netlify functions to, it's required to put it in a Netlify slash functions folder. Then I select a bundler and I set it to use ESBuild Because of the performance benefits of building functions with ESBuild it runs way faster when you use the ESBuild bundler. Otherwise, you can just leave it out. But why not make it fast? So I'll save that. And the next thing I want to do now that my adapter is successfully installed is go ahead and edit my Svelte configuration file, which is svelte.config.js. So what I want to do is first import the adapter that I just installed, which is import adapter from, it should be at Svelte. Yep. That one. Thank you, Google I lot. And the next thing I want to do is specify what adapter that Svelte should use for this project. So I'm going to set it to the adapter that I just, I just imported, which is this one. All right, so I'll save that. And what else do I need to do? I think that's pretty much it, right? Yeah, that's pretty much it. So let me go ahead and create the folder where I want to put the functions. So I'll do Netlify, then functions. That's it. And just to test this out, let me create a function and just call it like, I don't know, greeting. Yeah. greeting.js. And then just put like the smallest function you've ever seen, basically. It should be this. So it's just an ESync function that returns good money. That's it. But you know what? Since we are doing ES6, let's just go ahead and rewrite the function so that it uses the ECMAScript features that Netlify functions currently support. So we can do, instead of doing all that, we can do export async function. Yep. Thank you. That's it. Okay. Well, look at that. It's safe to say that Copilot wrote this entire function from

 me. So let's say good morning. And that's it. So I think that's all. Now what should happen is, let me deploy this code and just test that this works. And do git add everything. And I think I created a repo for this here. So yeah, this one. So I'm just going to get that. Sorry that this is so tiny. I'm going to try and zoom in a bit. Oh, no, I zoomed in too much. All right. So I'll paste the origin and I can do git push now. And that should work If I refresh I should get that pushed in Cool So I going to go to my Netlify site And I'm going to create a new site from Git. Select GitHub, get it authenticated. And I can put the repo that I'm searching for here. So select the build commands are already prefilled for me. So I'll go ahead and deploy site. All right. The site is deployed. So if I click on this, I should see the site, which is this one. Cool. So I'm going to go ahead and then try and see if the Netlify functions I added actually works. So I'll do .netlify slash functions. And what did we call the function? We called it greeting. Right. That's it. So this should now send back exactly Good morning Look at that So that is exactly what we specified here So our Netlify function is working as expected in Svelte So that's it. I wanted to just quickly show you how to use Netlify functions in your SvelteKit applications. And if you're wondering why, because I know that SvelteKit also has API routes that will give you the same functionality that you just get with Netlify functions. I made a little thing here to explain why that might be important. Or it may not be the same for everyone. But imagine that you're migrating your application to SvertKit from a different stack. And you already have Netlify functions that are already working for you in that stack. It would really just make sense to import them into your SvertKit application as opposed to writing them all afresh as SvertKit API routes. The second reason that you might be inspired to use Netlify functions in your Svetkit application is you can author functions in more languages if you're writing Netlify functions, right? You can write in Go in Rust in TypeScript as opposed to just writing them in JavaScript which is what Svetkit can only allow you to do So if performance is important to you and you trying to speed up your function running times you can build them in Rust, you can alter them in Go, and those have always been known to be faster than JavaScript. Also, it gives you more configuration options like using Netlify Redirect and Netlify Rewrites. Depending on how you're architecting your project, these things can come in handy for you. All right, that's it. So in summary, I want to say that with SvelteKit, we can cater for both the developer experience and user experience, right? If you wanted dynamic functionalities, you have access to it. If you want static experiences, you have access to it as well. you can make the best use of the multiple run-run modes that FertKit supports by default. SSR, CSR, SSG, whatever works for you is available on a per page basis. And finally, it gives you the best of both worlds as we've seen in these three different scenarios. So thank you all very much for having me. Once again, my name is Ekeny Eze and I'm available on socials at keny.io. If you have any questions, I'll be there in the chat section to respond to you. Thank you for having me and bye.