 Thank you. Hello, my name is Eric Breaux. I'm a front developer at Nuclea and I use a lot of Svelte. I just love it. I'm super happy to participate to the Svelte submit this year. So I'm here to talk to you about Talk to Svelte. That's a Svelte library, which is providing voice recognition and voice synthesis for Svelte applications. It's based on the web speech API, which is widely supported at the moment on all browsers most of the browsers that say and and on smartphones and the first question is why would we need uh to integrate voice recognition and and and synthesis on on any web application well i see two reasons for that the first one is kind of obvious is accessibility if you cannot use your fingers properly if you cannot use a keyboard or a mouse for any reason in different contexts while maybe using your voice to interact with a website is a good thing And it can help in many situations. The second reason here is because most people are using websites using web phones, using smartphones. And well, phones initially has been designed to be used through voice and ear, as crazy as it can sound nowadays. So I think that maybe it makes sense to leverage this when you're building a web application. So let's see how it works. All you need to do is to import a directive from TalkSouthsVault and then you can put it on any kind of element, like a button or a link that you want to interact with. With the directive, you can decide which is going to be the voice command associated with that. and by just saying it, it will activate the click event or any other event you want to trigger from that. That's basically how it goes. So now let's see a demo to see what it does exactly. All right, so first I enable voice recognition. Here we go. And now I can start interacting with this webpage by voice. Let's try. Click. Okay. The counter is incremented it just works Cool Menu Menu Examples Okay, I've been navigating to this page just by saying it loud. So that's cool. Let's move this blue square in the grid. Right. Right. Down. Up. Okay, works. This example now, origin, origin, Mexico, destination, Paris. Alright, so you can see we can define context where each command can be used even though they are the same. Now let's go with free text input. Record. I lost that and this is a great demo. Cool. So menu. Sorry I didn't say stop. Stop Come on All right so now I did stop registering the free text input Good. Menu. Menu. Languages. Alright, so as you could see, it was a bit challenging for me to use voice command in English because I don't have a super good accent. I'm not a native speaker obviously, but the system works with all languages. I have here a small list. Let's switch to French, which is my native language. And let's try with that one. Okay cool, I got a duck. So that's how it goes. You can use that in any use that application. You can perform any interaction you want and that's very fun to use. That's the end of the demo. Okay so that's it. Thank you for your attention. I hope you enjoyed this demo and well if you want to contact me here is my contact information and you can check the demo on talktothevalve.versal.app if you want to. There is also a GitHub repository, so feel free to check it, make pull requests or whatever. Thank you.