 Hey friends, what's up? What if I told you that search doesn't have to be complicated, but not even that, that you don't have to use any paid service. So the cost is only going to be the electricity and maybe one network request. You're going to see how later. So let me just really show you quickly an example. If I use this search on my site, let's say I'm looking for something important. So for example, I want to find the mention of a banana in all of my posts. How beautiful is this, friends? But let me show you something that is more incredible. so when I open the network tab and again I'm just going to pop open the search and you can see there are zero network requests so what is this black magic and basically we're going to use this library which is a lightweight JavaScript text search engine flex search so this is going to handle all of the difficult tasks for us and all of these things are going to be linked in the description including this post so you can read this post if you want you can try this example that you're going to create today and I also included a link to the repository here so you have all of this available to you. And at the end, if you're still interested, I'm going to actually go over the pull request for my site where I implemented the search so I can show you some of these finer details because we would be here for an hour, right? But as you're actually going to see, I just want to show you the basics of how you can implement this and you can do it under an hour, trust me. All right, friends, but before we get started, a quick message from our sponsor, myself. So you can support me by becoming a patron starting low as $1 a month. And also don't forget to like and subscribe. Thank you for your support. Alright friends, so I'm inside of an empty Spelky project and this actually works for any JavaScript framework where you can create a standalone endpoint and I'm going to show you why we need to do that. Of course, you can use a standalone server to create an API. So basically the only dependency you need is FlexSearch. You can use NPM. I'm going to use PNPM at FlexSearch and I already have it installed so I'm going to skip this step and let me just start the development server. So that's going to be basically it. And next, let me show you the project structure. So how I structure this project isn't really important you can place these files anywhere you want outside the usual swelky conventions for creating routes and endpoints right so here inside lib here you're going to have the logic for search here in our routes you're going to have this standalone endpoint plus server ts and here are the example posts i have so let me just quickly show you how this works so you can find this of course in the post or in the repo if you want to follow along exactly but you might notice something different this is just clean text right you're going to have markdown which you need to strip So for example, if we go here to this endpoint plus server TS, you can see we doing a silly thing here we importing JSON and then we serving this JSON as an endpoint but of course in your project documentation whatever you have you going to dynamically import your markdown and then you're going to strip the markdown and you can use any npm package for that so for example we can go npm we can say remove markdown and then you can see there's a bunch of packages you can use here but yeah so now that we have this endpoint let me just really show you so this is going to be at search.json. So now we can use this to index our post. And another thing I haven't done here, we're going to pre-render this also, so we can say export cons, pre-render true. So when I rebuild this project, right, to Vercel or whatever, then it's just going to do this once, and then it's going to cache it forever. So you don't regenerate this each time you hit this endpoint. This is why we create this standalone endpoint, because otherwise we could also create programmatically a JSON file, but then we would need to write some script to generate that each time. So we can read that from a folder if you want. That's also another option you can do. But yeah, that's basically it for the setup. All right, friends. So next, I actually want to quickly show you how FlexSearch works. We're going to see the search is actually the easiest part of this entire thing. The most work we're going to do is going to be highlighting the text that the FlexSearch results return. All right, so I'm going to go to the root page here. I'm going to close the sidebar. And then I'm just going to create this script tag. and let's just import FlexSearch from FlexSearch. All right, so let me show you how simple this is actually. So we can create an index. We can say index and we can say new FlexSearch index and we can also pass it some properties here. But let me actually show you something first. So now to add things to our index, we're going to use index and then we're going to say add and in the documentation, they're recommended to use numbers for the index. So we're going to say, for example, zero we're going to say hello and then also let me just copy this over and we're going to say hi here or whatever else and basically let's say this is how you start to create your own index you can index whatever you want all right so now you can have your results for example so you can say cons results and now you can say index search and now you can search for something for example let's say if this works and you're going to see it doesn't and i'm going to explain why we're going to say console results and now here I'm going to open the developer tools console you can see we get this empty array back because it couldn find anything but if we type in the entire word hello it should match so it going to return zero which is our index so now you can for example if you have a lot of posts and you find a match in all of those posts you can return those posts by the index and this is how simple it is i told you right but let me actually show you something else you can pass in some properties here so we can pass a tokenize method so we can make this even more awesome we can provide this forward method so this is going to match for example since we already have hello here and now when we start typing he is going to match this entire thing so you can use tokenize forward and now let me just show you now we can just type he let me save it and now it should also return a result let me refresh for good measure and you can see it returns the right result how awesome is this but yeah that's basically how flex search works this is everything you need to know about this and of course if we have here hello world just save this refresh you're going to see we get back two hits because it matched both of these posts based on the index 0 and 1 all right so now we understand how flex search works but i'm actually just going to take this import and let's go to our search ts file so we can have all of our logic right here and then we're just going to create a couple of functions so we're going to have export function create post index so we're going to pass in our data here which could be post but i'm just going to give it any type here you can of course import your post type or whatever else you want hey i stopped bothering me okay so now we can go to export function search post index and then we're just going to pass in a search term which is going to be a string and that's basically going to be it for now all right so now we need to store the index and the post so i can go here i can say let post index which is going to be of type flex search index but of course type script is optional as always and then we're just going to keep track of posts here so this is what you're going to query and etc and let's also complete this type thank you all right so here we're going to do the same thing i'm going to say post index so we're going to assign it here to this post index, but we're just going to do the same thing as before. So we can say flex search index, boom bam, thank you ma'am, how easy peasy is this friends, right? Look at this. Okay, so now we just need to loop over our post and you can organize your post however else you want. You can include tags here you can do whatever shape you want It really not important that you have this exact shape title slack content this is just something that i made up right and i going to actually show you how this works so we can go over this data and we can loop over each and now i can just say post and i also want the index because i want to index it by the number that's the only reason why i'm using index here and you can see already our ai is trying to help us out and it actually doesn't look bad but i'm going to actually cancel it so first what do we want to index so we can say for example item and then you can just say post content right but you actually want to index the title and the content so we can just concatenate them together so we can just say post title and i should do this properly let me just do it like this we can actually say post title and let me actually see if this thing is smart enough oh it was almost smart enough and it said post content right beautiful so now we have this item right and it actually screwed us over this is why you shouldn't trust ai my friends and you can say post.title post.content so now we can index all this thing and it's going to be blazing fast and now we need to index it we can say post index and now we're going to say add so we're going to pass the index which is going to be 0 1 2 and etc and we're going to pass in the item that's it this is how we create the index for our post, for our documentation, whatever. And now we just need to assign this post to data so we can query it, right? So we can say post equals data and boom, easy peasy, lemon squeezy like that, friends. We created a search index for our post. That's right. All right, friends, so let's create the search and I'm going to scroll up a bit. So the first thing we need to do is we need to escape this search term because we can type in special regex characters like dot or whatever else those crazy characters are. so we basically just need to escape the character and return the escape character. And this is actually where something like AI is incredibly helpful because it's just going to do the work for me. So let's just say escape special regex characters. So if I start typing, let's see if it's smart enough. Come on AI. Oh my god, it's embarrassing itself. Search term, replace. Oh, there we go. This is the sauce. this is the exact code that I wrote. Of course, don't always trust AI. I already yeeted this code from someone else before, so I know that it's correct when I look at it, right? And you can always, of course, test it. It just looks intimidating, right? But this just replaces this thing and then it returns this

 as an escaped character. So you don't delete the character because you maybe want to search for a dot, dollar sign, or whatever else. Basically, that's it. It's not intimidating at all. All right. Thank you. All right. So now we can actually say const results, and we can just do the same thing. So we can say post index, since we have it in the upper scope. So now we can say search match. That's it. Thank you. All right. So now I can go here, and the only thing left to do is we need to return the results. so now I'm going to say return results and now we can map over them so remember how I told you that this thing returns the indexes okay so this matches things like index one two three four and now we can just filter or map over and return the polls that match that's how simple easy peasy lemon squeezy this is friends so we can just say results map and then let's just say it gives us the index right so now we can use this we can say post and we can just map over the polls based on the index right and Tyscript is complaining because it's obnoxious what I'm going to say is number and that's basically it so now at this point this is done the search is done the hardest part well the hardest part is not going to be part but most of the work is going to be on highlighting the return text right so we can actually do this map so now we get the post back right and now you can do whatever you want the world is your oyster right so now we can say map and let's just destructure the slug title and content from this and now we can do whatever we want based on this content all right so now we can return slug title and content and i'm doing this in a weird way because we're actually going to come back to this code and update it to return the highlighted text all right so let's save everything and the next thing we're going to do we're actually going to go to our template and see how it works, right? Alright, so let's go to our page, and now I'm going to yeet everything inside of here. So let's create a script tag again. And now I'm just going to import on mount from Svelte. How beautiful is this? And now I'm going to import. Let's see if we can do it like this. We can say lib search. Wouldn't it be easier if the imports were opposite, so you don't have to do this weird thing, but whatever. Okay, so we exported create false index, and we can search false index. That is basically it. So now here let create some piece of state So now I going to create let search and people love using their booleans but I actually love using explicit state So here we can just say search by default it's going to be loading and I'm just going to use a cheeky type here. So let's see, I'm going to say loading and the other state is going to be ready. So that's basically it. And then I'm going to say let search term, which can be empty by default, but let's just use imagine just so we have something to work with from our post right and then here we're going to keep track of the results so i can say results and which is going to be an empty array so that's basically it all right cool so now let's use on mount so when this component mounts then we're going to do some magic all right so now here it comes our endpoint right so we actually want to fetch this endpoint and do whatever we want so that's how beautiful that is so we can just say const post and we can say await fetch and now we can just use it relative like this because circuit is going to understand how to resolve this search.json path right and then i'm going to say then so we're going to get the response and then i'm just going to say response.json okay and don't forget to make this async cool so now if i let's just console log out post so we that we're not insane and now when we go here you can see here we have all of our posts right and that's beautiful all right quick quiz time what we want to do first i'm going to wait of course oh my god ai is ruining all of the fun of course first we're going to create the post index it already knew right like i'm talking to it so now we're just going to pass it the post let's see how it works so we're going to pass in the post here boom bam thank you ma'am is going to reassign the post here, right? So that's how it's going to work. So we have this data and boom, now we have it here. Hope that's clear, right? So now we're going to create the post index and then we're just going to update the state. We're going to say search. What? It's ready. Boom. So now we're in business. Cool. Alright, so I also want to update results each time we type search, right? And of course you don't have to update search that often. You can maybe wait for a user action like enter or whatever, but actually in this case we can really afford this in this example because it's blazing fast right so what can we do well we're still using svelte 4 here but you can probably use an effect in svelte 5 i'm just going to use this really simple dollar sign so now i actually let me just back up a bit i going to say if search is ready only in this case we actually going to search the index right And it already knows Come on, AI, you're ruining all of the fun of coding. What is this? Okay, so we're going to say results equals search post index search term. And then this is going to update real time and we're going to see what's up. All right, so now we have to wire up the UI. So now I'm just going to go here and I'm going to say if, so i'm going to say if search is ready only in this case we're going to show something so i'm just going to create this element search i already have the styles globally which you can of course check out in the links if you want and now we just need to create an input type let's see can i do it like this boom search all right how beautiful is this right so now we have an input type search but it's not really important let me just make it look prettier all right cool so now we actually need to add a couple of things here. So first we're going to bind this value to the search term. Super easy peasy. Then we're going to add a placeholder, going to be search. Then we're going to turn off autocomplete because it's really obnoxious. So we can just say off. And we're also going to disable spell checking. So we're going to say spell check false. And that's basically going to be it. All right. So now let's actually see if this works. So we can actually do something cheeky here. Let's just use this pre and then we can save results. So this is one of my favorite snippets pre. It's just going to format things for us and because we're updating these results here it should update right. And let's see what is it complaining about. Variable zone fields has an any type. Yes who cares. I'll just say any so stop complaining at me. How beautiful is this reference. Alright so let's save this and you can already see we have this post. Let me just refresh for good measure and since this pre is at the top it's annoying so let me just move this code here so we have the input here and let me just see where's the input where did you go mr input oh it's here at the center of the screen because i'm using styles which are in the layout so you can check that out okay so let's see painting all right so in this case every post has the term painting so let's search for something imagine and this is also what every post has of course let's search for sunset and you can see how beautiful and instant this is. So we can search for joy, I actually, let's search lake, how many posts do we have? Lake if we don search for anything then it doesn have anything but let also search for something else forest dense or whatever else you want all right so you get the picture right now and this is implementing the search right this is how simple this is so all of the work is actually going to be returning this text and highlighting it somehow so that's what we're going to do in the next part all right but before we do that let's actually not use this let me just see i'm going to remove this pre and we're just going to come here where our input is inside of the search and i'm going to create this element result so it looks prettier right and now i'm going to say if results only then we're going to show the results let me just show this ul and then again let me just create this snippet and then i'm going to say results as result and now actually when we go here we can just say li and now we can complete this all right so now we can include the link or whatever else you want and let's see, is it right? It's not of course. So we're going to say slash don't forget the slash, it's really important, otherwise if you're on another URL it might not work, right? So we have to say slash this route and then we can just say result slug and that's basically it. And this is actually the cool part, so what we're going to do when we replace this text with a marker, a HTML element, right? We can just render all the HTML here. So we can say, we can use swells at HTML and then we're going to say result.title. So when we return back the HTML in a minute, right? And then let's also include the paragraph, which is going to be the text. And now we're also going to say here at HTML result.content. And that's how easy peasy this is, friends. So you can see already I have default styles, right? So things look absolutely beautiful. So let's look for some search terms. Magic, fall, warm, autumn, joy, and et cetera. so each post has imagine right and you can see everything works beautifully let me just bump the size up so you can see what's going on yeah spring whatever and basically this is it this is the search done but of course let's see how we can highlight the return text all right friends let me show you the game plan so you understand what's going on so for example here is our goal right so let's say for example that we match this content from the post hello world all right so now that we have this, so this is what we return, slack title content, boom. So now we can do something with that content, right? We can swap this word with a HTML marker, right? But how do we do that? Well, first inside of this post, we actually have to find the index

 for that word. So this is going to be this index, right? Maybe it starts here, right? Really, I'm making things up, right? I don't know what actually this index is. But okay, now that we find this index, and imagine if this is a longer paragraph, and then you have some other things like banana here. Okay, so now we take this index, and then we can also take a snippet from this text, right? So we can, based on this index, we can maybe go back 20 characters, we can start here and then maybe we can go ahead 80 characters and then we're going to return this snippet, so actually we're just going to return this text and then we're just going to add dot dot dot like this, so that's basically how this is going to work, actually sounds complicated but it's actually very simple once you see it alright cool, so how are we going to do that well I'm going to create a function and we don't have to export this because we're only going to use it in this file, we're going to say function get matcher so we're going to pass a couple of things. We're going to pass text, which is going to be a string. We're going to pass in the search term, which is also going to be a string. And we can even specify a limit. As you see here in this example, let me just show you. So we can say, I don't know, forest, nature. So you can see how we get one search result from the post. But maybe you want to return more of these instances, right? And you can also index things by other things. Maybe you have posts and then you can index things by every heading, right? So maybe you can return this title of the post and then for every heading inside of that post, maybe you can return search results for that. That is something that the Svelte site does if you want to check that out, right? So that's basically what this is. But of course, you can return this here and then back in your template here where you have this content, you can loop over this extra results if you want. But yeah, let me just show you how this works. so first I'm going to go here I'm going to say regex and now we have to create a dynamic regex so for example if you might be familiar with a regex literal like this and then we would say something like this at the end but the problem with this you can't really pass in a variable here like this isn't something that you can use even template literals on so this would always be the same thing and in these scenarios we use a dynamic regex so that is why we're going to use this funky syntax we're going to say new regular expression boom, easy peasy, lemon squeezy actually I don't want this, so we can say new regular expression and then search term and actually I want g for global and then we going to pass i so it case insensitive right and then we want to keep track of the indexes so this is going to be an empty array and here since we have this limit i'm going to say let match zero so we're going to increment this inside of our loop and then we need let match which is going to be from the while loop look at this it already knows because it slurped up the entire internet right and let me just really show you what you're going to use so you don't think i'm super smart or something basically if you look at this on mdn it's literally the same example that it has here it creates a dynamic regular expression and then it does this method executive and then while this matches then you can do something whatever but yeah basically it's all on mdn and this ai just slurps it all up but we're actually going to modify this a bit so actually let me just start typing while and then let's actually see what it says. Okay, while, let's see. Match equals regex.exec text. That's right. And then let's actually... And now I lost it, of course. While I was reading it, right? Let's see if the gods are going to have mercy on me. Okay, null whatever. We can just go this. So, match equals regex.exec text isn't equal null, but it's an option, right? And then we also want to tag on and if matches is lower than the limit, of course. Cool. So now what are we going to do? Oh my God, it already knows. It already ruined everything. So it knows that we want to push to the index. So we're going to say index is push the match index that it returns, right? And then we're going to increment matches. Easy peasy like this, friends. And let me just remove this. This looks like something extra. So yeah, that's basically it. So now we're going to push this index where these words occur. So we're going to have index one, two, three, four, however much you set this limit. But in this case, we only just returned one. So that's why it just returns the entire post. and nothing else right but yeah that's basically it it's really not that hard as you see and now we're going to do that logic where we return the excerpt so what do i mean well we can just return so now we can map over the indexes so now we get the index back and now we can just specify some things so we're going to have start so now we can go back 20 characters or however else you want and look at it how does it know right so let me just really show you i'm going to auto complete it so now we're going to define the start and end so now instead of 20 let's say that you're going to go ahead 80 characters right and then we're going to use text substring so we going to take that excerpt text and what really beautiful about substring compared to something like slice if you have a negative index it going to be zero so it never going to go out of bounds and you're going to get an error right so this is really why i love substring in this case but in this case actually we're not just going to return this because that's just the text right i'm going to name this const excerpt i think excerpt is that how we type it yeah i guess so now we have this and let's just trim any white space that we have all right so now we're going to return this as some formatted text right so now we can say return if i spell it right so let's just return this template literal all right so now we're going to have dot dot dot dot dot at the middle here we actually want to take this excerpt and we want to replace the match text with a marker right so that's something that we're going to create another function for So let me just create this template literal, and we're going to name this function replace text with marker. And then we're going to pass the excerpt, and we're going to pass in the search term. So let's create this function above this. So we can say function, let's see, replace text with marker. Let's see how smart it is. Actually, is it going to deplete? Doesn't matter. So we can just go here, and let's just pass it some parameters. we can pass the text as string and then we're going to name this match which is a search term but it's not really important alright so this is going to be really simple just two lines of code I think and we actually need to do it in a way so it's case insensitive but the beautiful thing is that you don't have to do anything special we can just use text replace all we can get back the match and then the match that we get back we can just replace it so we don't have to do things like too lowercase or whatever else and then ruin the results because everything is going to be lowercase right alright but enough talking let me just really show you something so we're going to again create a dynamic regex so we can say new or whatever and then let's just pass in the match and then we want the global flag and the case insensitive flag all right so i'm going to show you how simple this is all right so now we're going to say return text and in this case we want to replace all let's actually see if this thing is smart enough oh how beautiful is this friends it already knows so we're going to pass in regex let me just complete this we're going to pass in this regex that we're going to use then we're going to get back the match which was case insensitive, right? So this is really how beautiful this works. So now inside of that text that we have, so for example, let me just remind you again if you feeling lost So for example we have hello world so we just really pass this to this function and it says alright I should match and replace this text so it going to be mark mark and this is what you going to return and get the syntax not syntax highlighting but regular text highlighting in our search results and of course you maybe notice we're rendering HTML so if you have any HTML in your markdown don't forget to strip that out also and I'm also going to show you that in my pull request how I've done it but basically that's it if you can believe it right all of my talking right? But if you just look at this code, it's really not that intimidating. Of course, when I've done it, it took me a while to figure it out. So I really don't want to pretend here that this was all done in five minutes. It took me a while to figure it out. But yeah, it wasn't that really bad, right? So we can save this and now we should get the excerpt. And remember here, we just have these results and then we loop over them and then we output the HTML. Cool. So now if we go back here and of course nothing is going on because I'm silly right okay what is the problem do you know what are we doing nothing that is the problem so we have this awesome get matches we're not using it anyway right cool so this is the part that we want to change because we return this and now we just need to format it silly me right silly goose all right so we can keep the slug but for the title we can just use the replace text with marker and then we can just pass in title match that's it and what we want to do for the content well we need to do two things we just need to get matches and then let's see we just need to pass the content and match right because this is just replacing the title that we return because it's way simpler right we're just going to replace text with marker but in the case of our content we actually need to find the indexes for these words and then we need to replace them right so this is going to replace text with marker and boom that's it you're done so let's actually save this and now you can see how beautiful this looks like so this just returns this extra right we're going back 20 characters but we're going ahead 80 characters which we can adjust of course so let's just also look for something like stroke joy painting imagine beautiful sunset you can see how fast this is it just rips through everything but yeah that's basically it for the search i think and if you're interested in the next part i'm going to go over the pull request I made for my site to show you some extra things. Alright friends, so let's quickly go over how I implemented search for my site. And as I already told you, the naming and placement of these files is completely irrelevant. So you can see I have all of this search logic inside of this UI slash search folder.

 and I have this endpoint inside of my API slash search folder, right? So this really isn't that important. So I'm going to close the sidebar and the search logic is going to be the same. It's the exact same code that you saw earlier. But let me show you how I prepare the data. So I don't know, a mood struck me here. I was like, I don't need a package, but actually trust me, use a package from NPM. But actually I had a lot of fun creating this and please don't forget to strip out the tags. also if you have them in your markdown, otherwise you're going to render them. So I replace the tags with these HTML entities. So I have this function strip markdown, I pass the markdown, and then I loop over these patterns, and then I replace the content, and that's basically it. So here's the part I was talking about. You can use VIT and import Metaglobe to dynamically import your post, then you can loop over the post. I'm checking here if the front matter from the post is the post is a draft, then I'm going to return null, otherwise I'm going to return title slug content, and then I'm going to filter it by passing boolean so it's going to remove all those null values and then i'm going to return the post as json and pre-render everything so that's basically it and in the component itself i'm doing some things different so for the dialog i'm using melt ui so you can ignore all of this junk here this is just melt ui so let me just show you use melt and yeah it's almost the same code here is this button so yeah of course this is just a fake input when we open it another thing that you can do for example my content is one meg in size but maybe you have a lot more content so you can instead of doing this on mount maybe you can just do this when the user clicks on this just so you don tax your mobile users and etc that would be also a nice alternative and also i'm checking what the platform is so i'm checking here if platform is mac intel then i'm going to show this special mac symbol and how do i know that well if we look here at the code first i'm going to import this browser from swelke to know that we're in the browser context once i know that we're in the browser context then i can safely use window.navigator.platform and that's how i know the platform so for the state it's really not that different so for the state i have idle load ready search term is the same here keep track of the results but here is something different i'm doing i'm using a web worker and why am i using a web worker well let me just really show you i didn't even have a problem with performance but to make it future proof and it actually feels a bit smoother you wouldn't even be able to see it on the video you would have to experience this but let me just really show you i have a lot of posts and look how these things rip through them right? There is like no delay, no jank. But maybe if you have a lot of content at some point, the UI would start to feel janky because you're blocking the main JavaScript thread. And let me just really show you where you can see a worker, not to be confused with service worker. A web worker is just a background tag so you can run some code in a separate thread, which sounds intimidating, but it's actually really simple. So let me actually show you, if I refresh this, you're going to actually see it here. Here is this special cog sign search, right? So you're going to see here is this search and you can also see inside of the sources here is this special coq symbol right and i open this but let me just close it and yeah that basically it that what the web worker is all right so how does it work well let me show you well on on mount we going to move all of that logic inside of a web worker instead So what are we doing here We saying search worker equals new search worker And we can do that because Vite has this special import for workers. You can name this whatever you want. You can name this banana. But you can see here we have this search worker, question mark worker. So this is a special Vite import. So now we're going to initialize the worker. And then we're going to add an event listener message. We're going to the structure type and payload. so if the type is ready then we're going to assign the state to ready. Otherwise if we get the type results we're going to reassign the results from our worker. And the first thing we do of course is just shoot off a message type load. So let me show you how this works. Here is our worker. So we just import here all of our logic from search. So now the computation happens in the worker right. And now we can listen for these messages here. So the first message we send is type load. So we're going to do the same thing. We're going to fetch the post. We're going to create the post index once. and then we're going to post back message ready. So now when we see if the type is ready, then we're going to assign the state of search to ready. And that's basically it. We also have if type search, then we're going to search our post index and then we're going to post message type results with this payload, which has the results and the results term. That's basically it. It's really simple like that. So if type is results, then we're just going to reassign it. And to update the UI on our page, again, we're doing the same thing. If you're using Svelte 5, this is probably going to be an effect because side effects, right? So we have search worker, we're going to post a message, type search and because the search term is here Svelte knows that it should rerun this each time the search term updates That how simple easy this is my friends And I also have this extra thing so we checking if the search term exists and if the dialog isn open then we going to clear it because you can open this, and you can just start typing, and then if you close it, it's going to be cleared. And another user experience thing is on Navigate, we want to close the dialog, because I can open this, and I can, for example, start typing banana, and I also have great accessibility here, but then when I click on the post, the dialog is going to close. And that's basically it. And the last thing, of course, is a shortcut. So we can use Svelte window, so we can listen for the key down event, and then we can say if E-CTRL-K or if the meta key is pressed, and then I have this case insensitive searching for E-Key, if it's lowercase or uppercase, I thought maybe someone can fat finger caps lock on accents or whatever, then I'm going to prevent the default behavior because the default behavior when you press CTRL-K is going to do the search inside your browser. If you don't like that you can just change the shortcut and here we're going to just toggle the value of the dialogue and that's basically it friends i think in this template i have some other check here to make sure and then as i told you before you can also loop here if you have more than one results but in my case i also just returned one result so this really doesn't do anything but yeah just to make sure right and here is just some styles but yeah that is basically it so now we have a beautiful search here that we can use. Alright friends, so that's it. And if you've watched this far, I appreciate you. And if you like what you've seen, don't forget to like and subscribe and you can also support me by becoming a patron. Thank you for watching and catch you in the next one. Peace!