 Hey friends, almost a year ago I announced the presentational framework Animotion. Animotion is a great way to create beautiful animated presentations with ease and you can visualize ideas with code just using web technologies. For this we're using the JavaScript framework Svelte, Reveal.js to drive the presentation and Tailwind CSS for styling. but today I'm ready to announce the next iteration of Animotion, which is simpler and more powerful than before. Let's start with the basics. In Animotion to create a presentation, you can import the presentation and the slide component from Animotion slash core. You can also provide an options object with a transition property so you can define the animation for your slides and you can specify if you want your controls to be visible or not. You also have an optional callback for the slide when the slide enters and leaves, which is the in and out callback. For styling, we're using Tailwind CSS, and I normally don't reach for Tailwind in my personal projects, but in this case for slides, I think Tailwind makes perfect sense. But Tailwind is optional, and you can use any styling method you prefer. Slides by default use the display grid property, so you don't have to define it yourself, and you can just define height full and you can say place content center and place item center to center your items in the slide. And you can use Tailwind CSS to style the rest of your elements. And we can create a new slide with an image. And this is how it looks like in practice. So now we have this animation title in and then we're going to go through the next slide. And this is really great, but we can do a lot better. In your imports where you have presentation and slide, you can import another import named transition. So here we have two slides. We can create one slide using the transition element, so we can create two transitions. In this case, we want to transition from the text to the GIF in the slide. But let's say for example that we also want to change the size of the text. We can also provide an optional callback. So this is how it looks like. In this example I'm going to define text and then I can say bind this equals text so we get access to the paragraph element. And then for the transition we can specify an optional do callback so we can say text.classlist.replace and we can replace the tailing class or do any other DOM modification. And this is going to animate beautifully thanks to the view transitions API. So let's see how that looks like in practice How beautiful is this friends Let talk more about transitions Transitions are awesome because you can use any layout method that you want. In this example, I'm using grid to define two rows and two columns. And since you're using the transition component, we can show the elements in order. For the animation, we're just using regular CSS keyframes. You can of course change the default animation or create custom animation, such as this awesome rotate animation. Sometimes elements might not appear in order, in which case you can change the order of the element. And we can also use the custom transition. The only downside of using the View Transitions API is that it's not available in every browser, so I recommend that you use a Chromium-based browser. But in my opinion, I think the trade-off is worth it. Speaking of transitions, let's talk about layout animations. Transitions are way more powerful than they seem. We already seen this simple example where we have 4 items, but we can actually use Svelte make this easier and use an each block in this example i'm going to define a piece of state named items and then i'm going to use the each block to loop over the items using our custom animation and this is going to work as expected this is great but at some point i probably want to change the dom and show something else in this case we can actually provide an optional callback to the transition named do as we already seen in the past but in this case because items is reactive we can actually trigger a layout animation so let's see how this works in practice in this example we're just going to shuffle the items and it's going to reactively update and animate the layout how beautiful is this friends Let's talk about animating code. Animotion supports beautiful syntax highlighting thanks to Shiki. To use a code block, you can import the code component from Animotion slash code. And then you can use the code component in your template by specifying a language, a theme, and the code snippet itself. By default, Animotion is going to auto-indent your code, so it's going to turn something like this which uses steps to something like this so you don have to worry about code indentation but in case you want to opt out of this you can use spaces or you can specify auto indent false You can also specify some interesting options such as the duration or the stagger amount And then you can bind the code component itself by specifying a variable and then you can say bind this to that variable. And now you can use the method from the code component itself. Now that you have a reference to the component itself, you can invoke the method on it such as code.update. The only thing you have to specify is the change code and any motion is going to do the diffing and updating the code for you. So in this example, we can look at our previous example and then the change that we want to make to it. And you can see it just works like magic. And of course, you can invoke some other method such as line selection and even highlighting tokens. These methods also return a promise so you can use the await keyword. Now you can select individual lines, you can select a range, you can select a range including individual lines and you can select even tokens themselves. And if you want to select everything, you can just pass the star to select lines. This is how simple animating call blocks is in any motion. Let's talk about actions. Actions are awesome because they let you step through your slide and run some arbitrary code. So let's look at an example. Previously, we've seen a code example, but what if we want to somehow control it using something else? So we can import an action component in this case. And now we can drive the changes to the code component using an action. And an action is basically just like a transition component, but it doesn't do layout animations. And this is how it works. So now we can step easily through the slide. First, we can select the second line. Then we can select the fifth line with the count and plus plus tokens. We can select another token and once we're done we can select every line again. Actions are really powerful. Let's talk about motion. Despite its name, Animotion has no opinion on how you do animation. You can use third-party JavaScript libraries or any other method that you want. By that being said, I use some helpful utility methods that I want to share with you. One of those methods is the tween function which you can import from Animotion slash motion. And now we can create a tween value. In this case I have a circle and I want to animate the x, y, the radius and the fill color. This is really useful when you want to animate values that otherwise wouldn't be possible to animate using regular CSS such as text canvas elements or even SVG elements in some cases In this example I going to animate a circle inside of an SVG but another great use case for this would be animating the view box which you can use as a camera, and this wouldn't be possible to animate using regular CSS animations. Now we can just simply animate the circle. You can also combine this with actions and step through your slide. And Emotion is just a SvelteKit template so you get access to all of the great features of SvelteKit. And SvelteKit is just an application framework on top of Svelte. Using SvelteKit you get access to great features such as API routes and so on. so you can even use an iframe to embed something inside your slide without having to spin up an extra HTTP server. And how you organize things is up to you, but this is how I prefer to do it. And if you want to deploy your presentation, that is really simple using SvelteKit adapters. So you can deploy your presentation to any of these platforms using an adapter. I want to share my process cover record videos for YouTube. I'm going to link this post I wrote about making videos for YouTube that has a lot of useful tips, but one of them is to just use OBS for recording your screen. OBS has a lot of great features, including audio filters, which once you set up, you're never going to have to think about sound again. And for the recording process itself, I highly encourage you, instead of doing one lengthy session of recording, you break everything into clips and stitch them back together in your video editor. This way, it's easy to fix mistakes and do retakes instead of doing everything again. This saves you a lot of time because even if something goes wrong, you only have to re-record one part of the video. And the editing process itself is really straightforward. I just imported clips and the only editing I do is cutting mistakes out and etc. As you can see, you don't need any fancy setup. To get started, you can simply run npm create at animotion which would run the animotion cli the animotion cli is going to ask you a couple of questions and you can also install dependencies while you're at it and that's basically it after it's done you can run the development server and even join the discord if you have questions and to learn more you can always read the docs that's it if you like what you've seen don't forget to like and subscribe and you can support me by becoming a patron Thank you for watching and catch you in the next one. Peace.