 Hey friends, let's talk about global styles in Svelte today, which is more interesting than you think. So how do you include global styles in Svelte? Well, the simplest way is include the style tag in app.html and you're going to include global styles for your site. But there's a problem with this approach. Because SvelteKit is basically just a Vite plugin, and Vite has lightning fast hot module reloading or replacement. That basically means whenever you change something in your CSS or JavaScript files, it's going to get instantly reflected in your site. But there's a problem with this approach because Vite has no idea that you updated app.html. So for example, if I go here and I say h1, and then I say color aqua, and I'm going to say nothing is going to get updated. And why is that? Because Vite has no idea the changes happen. So you have to refresh your page, which is really inconvenient. And if you go to the source, just bump the size up, You can see in the head here are the styles, so everything works great. Okay, so what is the next thing you can do? So let me just copy over the styles. And I'm going to remove this tag, let me go to my project. And inside source, I can create new file, or you can put this inside your folder, you can just say app CSS or if you using sass you can just install it and do it that way All right so now since I created this in our routes we need to create layout So we can say layout and now I can create a script tag and now we can import the styles here. So now Vite is going to know that something changed and it should update our styles. So we can say, I think it's app.css like that. Let me just save it. And everything should work. We need to include the slot, Because basically if you're not familiar what the layout is, like imagine it just gives a big warm hug around everything else in your app. So basically it's like this. So you have, let's say this is your component. Every page in SwellKit is a component. So this is your component, or let's say this is the home page. And basically when you add layout, basically this is what happens. Layout, and then it gives it a nice big warm hug. And basically that's how that works. All right, so that's cool. But let's talk about something more interesting. So I'm going to close the layout, I'm going to close, actually, let me just remove this and we can close app.html. So let's talk about, for example, when you don't have control over some markup in your component, let's say this comes from your CMS or whatever this HTML I made, and then you can use HTML to output it on your page. And the next thing you would do, you would go maybe to style here, and you would like notice okay So let me just say pros h1 color aqua you will a new CSS selector What does this mean Well basically what this means that Svelte doesn know that this exists anywhere because you don't have control over this markup and it's not in your template. So if this is not in your template, Svelte ignores it. Okay, so what can you do? You can use global. You can do it like this. And now this should go away. and now interestingly if we save it should work and now if you go to head and you can see here is the style that's scoped to your components you can see dot pros h1 and this is kind of okay but now we created global styles and this might bite you later right so another thing that you can do you can scope this to this component and still use global so let's see how this changes so we can say for example pro so this is going to be scoped to this component and you can say global heading and look now how it's changing so this is dot pros and this is the auto generated id so it's coped to this component which is way neater than before all right but this gets really tedious like imagine if you have a lot of elements and then it gets really annoying so one thing that's specific to swell kit because it comes out of the box with it but you can do this with regular svelte svelte kit comes with a pre-process or so if i go to let me see svelte config you can see pre-process here and if i go to github i going to include all these links in the description so what you can do using preprocess which is really interesting instead of having to do this you can just remove global And here you can just specify a global attribute. And now self is going to be happy. Let me go here, save, and everything works the same. But again, this is global now, so this might not be ideal. And there's also some other interesting things I didn't even consider. So you can see how you can even nest global here if you're using SCSS or SAS, that is, is really interesting, you can have a read here. But another thing I didn't know or consider when I read the swell documentation, it just shows you similar to what I did, you can also do this for keyframes, right? But another interesting thing is that you can conditionally render a style tag, which I didn't even think about, so that's interesting. So as it says here, however, it's possible to have a style tag nested inside other elements or logic blocks, which is just something interesting to consider. But basically, that's it. I hope you found this educational and don't forget to like and subscribe and also you can consider becoming a channel member or find my Patreon in the description. Thank you for watching and catch you in the next one. Peace!