 Hey guys, what have you guys been up to? Another week, another skeleton, I guess. Another two weeks, another bi-week. Yeah, it's better than what it was before, right? So what have you guys been up to? Have you done anything fun? I guess we should do a quick run of self-intros, just because maybe people don't know places and maybe they don't know who we are. That's true. Go ahead. Yeah. Oh, sorry. You were cutting off. All right. Yeah. So I, I guess I, I, I run Svelte School and I work for a company called BuddyBase building a no-code tool. And I'm also very into the Svelte community, so I run a couple of things. Last week, I've been working on the Svelte School tutorials page, which I'm about to launch tomorrow, I think. Maybe by the time this is out, so that's fun. Nice. That's exciting. First article is going to be on actions. Of course. Kev's favorite actions yeah alright who's next? Sean hi I'm Sean I am normally living in New York where I helped to start the Svelte Society meetup because Rich is there but now I've been displaced because of the virus and now I'm in Singapore so I'm calling in from 3pm my time and I'm between jobs. So for the past couple of months, I've been a full-time author. It's coming down to the wire for my book. I'm launching it next week and just trying to tie in all the marketing details together and setting up the page. I think I'm going to be writing my page and stuff. Just the landing page and stuff. Nothing amazing. But I don't know. It's just, I just, I have a lot of sympathy for like the, the spot way of doing things. And it just an interesting time to be talking about things Like I this week I wrote an article that kind of of took off talking about the third age of JavaScript and what we can do to make our tools better and faster and things to all as a part of that. Cool. Okay, so my name's Anthony Jones. I'm a maintainer of Svelte. I'm also the co-founder of a software, adventure software company called Bionk. We provide software for experienced providers. A strange name, I know, but there you go. It's like a word beyond with a K on the end. I also started the London Svelte meetup, which weirdly enough occurred on the exact same first days as Svelte NYC one. You started it first, and then I was like, hey, we have rich and rich. We better know that. I think the Stockholm one was also like, the same day or day after or day before or something like that yeah we i mean it was a view to have it worldwide right but it's quite difficult to do everything at the same time because obviously uh wherever you know if sure you're in malaysia then 3 p.m is 8 a.m our time it's a terrible time for a meetup it's a terrible time for eating peach and drinking beer so yeah and it's not always possible to be the worldwide thing but we tried hey the same day is good same day is pretty good yeah yeah for sure cool that's me Yeah, right. Should we get into the topics? Yeah, so we have a bunch of, I think there's like 12 topics. Some of them are not that long, some of them are longer. The first one is Rich Harris's article on In Defense of the Modern Web. What do you think of these? Yeah, I mean, I haven't, I'm not sure I've read it, actually. I skimmed it, I think. Right, so this is basically a response to someone named Tom McWright. He wrote this article on second guessing the model web, and basically just kind of criticizing the way that we build sites, like with static site generators and frameworks first and then rehydrating everything. You know, we server render and then we rehydrate on the clients. And he was like, we don't need that. We can just write raw HTML or use a non-JS static site generator. Just generate raw HTML and that is guaranteed to render faster because there no JavaScript that ever run So it the whole like I can do this without JavaScript why are you using JavaScript debate And I think Rich appreciated that. He's also very bored, which is very good as well. Oh, yeah, I remember actually reading this. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. It's about the animations and stuff, right, with how it's not possible to really make native application-style applications yet, right, as well? There's a lot in here. There's a lot of concerns. And honestly, I feel like one side doesn't really have the same priorities as the other. We're just making different things. That's why I always tend to say, like, you know, like, obviously using the right tool for the job, like, if you're really sure that all you want is HTML, then you don't have to use Fogled. But I think a lot of people also think about the subsequent navigation, like, people actually push back on his assumption that, like, hey, well, HTML is actually faster because you click around, people are like, I click around your site and it doesn't feel as fast to me as a Gatsby site where it can automatically preload or only rerun this based on JSON blocks, right? So those are the things, like, and it's a very complicated discussion for me because like a lot of times people visit one page and then they bounce, right? So you actually should be optimizing for a single load. Whereas JS frameworks with client-side running, you're actually optimizing for subsequent load. And maybe people don't look around every single article on your site. they get their thing and then they piece it's very likely that that's the case yeah and i think what i've noticed when you do a sapper export actually is it does bundle everything into each page so it makes the individual page size better so i think it actually it's so it makes it bigger i think it is optimized for a single view of a single page uh which is i don't know yeah good good or bad and i think my personal thoughts on this are obviously like i agree with rich apart apart from linting is linting rules i agree with rich across the board with everything um it's empty road is linting rules and code style i mean we just i couldn't disagree more if i tried right but um but no what what he saying is right and it i think another bit of this is it sort of your cognitive overhead right If you writing dynamic sites all day and you want to produce a static site the ability to write that static site using the exact same tool in the exact same languages you use for your dynamic sites is you can't underestimate that the developer experience of that, not having to switch between two modes is, is invaluable. Yeah, for sure. Yeah. I mean, for the, sorry. Yeah. For the, For the Svelte Society Day website, I actually did it in Svelte and then just removed the JavaScript bundle. Yeah, that's a completely fine way to do it. But it's irritating to have to go in and switch off the bundle or turn it on, depending on... Yeah, you could maybe automate that, I'm not sure. Oh, yeah, I'm sure. I think the thing is, we have this notion, or I'll say we, the community has this notion that we should over-optimize first, as if we're going to receive a million users or if everyone's going to use a connection with no data at all. Now, granted, we should accommodate these type of users, but I don't think we need to over-optimize our sites up front. I think there's a value in saying, well, I want to produce something, and it's either the difference in me producing it the way I want to or not producing it because I've got to over-optimize and it's become a burden. It's better that the content's there, right? Yeah, definitely. Yeah. So, you know, Rich ends the article with like, talking about how, I think this is an uprising thing that's coming with the frameworks. He mentions, the future I want to see is one with tooling that's accessible to the greatest number of people, including designers. I mean, that just means he wants to write law CSS. And then can intelligently move work between server and client as appropriate. And I think that's something that React is looking into as well. So basically a tighter integration between server and client, just saying that if it can be done on the server, let's only be on the server and not send the JavaScript. Which means we need to wait for Mark, you know, what parts of the site needs to be in JS and what parts don't. The way that Next.js does it is they just have this separate lifecycle where this is a static page and everything here is static. They still send the JavaScript number, but I think, you know, there's more, the way that this article rose the prominence was Dan Abramow saying this is the future version of React. So that's pretty notable that people are saying that. You want to drop the notes, Brian?

 SSG here, Sean? Oh, I mean, like, well, so, like, the intention of SSG is that, yeah, so, like, it should be, like, the way that it's designed right now, it's just a simple overlay over Sapper, so it doesn't really do anything more apart from, like, fix some of the data fetching paradigms of Sapper. But, right, but what we really want is to send raw HTML where needed. So it's going to opt out of client-side routing, but it's going to opt in to that use spell components for everything model, which is the developer experience that we like. And so the main vision is to send the main page as just HTML with no JavaScript and then have simple APIs to make certain parts of the pages interactive. I have a rough idea of how I'm going to do it. I think it probably is going to involve some webpack mastery, which I don't have yet. But, you know, I'm sort of like, that's in the back of my mind of something that should exist. And no one's doing it. So eventually I might have to do it. But I am putting it off because I need to make money first. Yeah, same thing. Yeah, I was going to ask, how do you think you're going to have time for this? I mean, you know, with any luck, I'm starting my job at EWS the following Monday. And I will have more of a stable sort of life situation and be able to just hack on things without actually worrying about, like, you know, is this a good use of time? Yeah, that makes sense. So, yeah. That's what I'm thinking about. But like, yeah, SSG, like, so the next item that we're actually going to talk about is the Syntax.fm, like the stuff from Scott Solinsky, who's been writing a tutorial on Syntax.fm. And he's actually been mentioning the SSG project a couple of times because he rebuilt his own site with Svelte, which is great for us. Um, because now the syntax tool, which is one of the sort of most popular front and framework podcasts, when one of the hosts is, uh, all in on react and the other host is kind of like dangling his feet in SvelteBall, which is very interesting. That cool But he he mentioning SSG and I like dude like I not for users Yeah because sometimes a good idea can produce a team of contributors who will make your ideas real So what I really should do is just write a design doc and go like, okay, someone build this, please. Yeah. I think the Jake from Routify is also going to start working on a framework with Rixx0, I think. I'm not sure, though. So a lot of frameworks. That's good, though. Is this Roxy? Roxy? Yeah, yeah, yeah, exactly. Yeah. There's a framework called Roxy. So Routify came along, and that was Jake as well, and kind of started some ideas. but I think there's a view to making a very modular framework you can pull in and out bits that you don't do or don't want. And I think they've called that Roxy. So it's all kind of conceptual right now, but that's what they're working on. And it would be initially similar to Sapper, I guess, but then it would move into being similar to Svelte as well. And then they've got the idea to make it very modular so you can actually make it to be completely different. But underneath, it's always using Svelte. That's awesome. Yeah, the more the merrier, right? Morning, Mary. Yeah, absolutely. Cool. Shall we move on to the next item? Let's do it. This is weird. I've never done a conference talk to my kitchen counter. I'm trying to keep playing it. Did Rich just join the podcast? Well, yeah, anyway, so, yeah, I, you know, I'm still halfway through listening to this podcast. So this is Syntax.fm show 250, Scott teaching Wes boss Svelte and Sapper. I listened to it. Sorry? It's good. I listened to it. It's good. Yeah, it's cool. It's still a lot of basic introductory stuff, but they have a wide audience and most of them are not going to know about Svelte, so it's still really good information. Scott obviously explains things really well. Which ties into the next point that I have as well, which is he actually released the whole YouTube tutorial series on his channel, Level Up Tutorials, and he's integrating Svelte with Meteor, which is his favorite framework. And I mean, it's great to watch. I got my start with Meteor actually The only way I became a full stack developer was I just copied a bunch of media uh which like doesn teach you anything right media media does so much for you that you just like I don't know like okay I'll just do whatever media says and then the moment you run into problems you get stuck but um I think if you actually stick with it for years like Scott has then it actually becomes a very productive tool so I was very impressed with it yeah when I first used it meteor um but the problem i guess for me was i genuinely thought it was dead i thought i thought no one was using it anymore um apart from people that were kind of locked in and i'm going to get in trouble saying that but i genuinely had not heard of it in years yeah i mean like for a while if you go on hacker news and type like is media dead in the search and like people keep denying it but like how many times do you have to deny it yeah well it's a bit it's a bit like the same question we get you know is sapper dead the answer is no obviously but the fact it's not you know shouting shouting and shouting it doesn't mean it's dead it's just we're working on it slowly in the background yeah um cool cool uh yeah so next item that we have is the uh this is a small thing because i haven't i didn't see it But Microsoft built their annual developers conference, obviously went fully online, and they built a whole demo app as well. I'm just going to do that in there. I mean, you say this is a small thing, but actually I guess it's a small, like a mini announcement, but it's quite a big thing. If you look at the demo they've produced, they're showcasing one of their new flagship products, and they've got four frameworks up there, and one of those frameworks is felt. I mean, that's quite a, I would say it's quite a big thing, especially if the Svelte is quite a big thing. But I think even more notable, and again, I only watched bits of it because I was busy, but one of the really important things is the actual demo that they were doing during the conference, despite having four languages available, was a Svelte demo. So they actually did the showcase and the launch in Svelte, which is actually, I mean, that's amazing, right? That was their choice of framework. So, yeah, I would say it's quite a, I mean, not to say it's not a small thing, but it's quite a big thing actually, I think, in terms of community and sort of visibility of spells and stuff in the wide world. I think people are, like, it's just like the right tool for doing demos like this because you don't have to, like, especially with React, you have to import a bunch of like CSS and JS libraries and stuff like that Like there a lot of setup and it probably probably get a lot out of the box And I think that probably like as someone who does demos professionally like that's what it would be for me. Yeah, that's exactly it. I mean, it's also, you know, it's felt will be the fastest out of all the, you know, the frameworks available there. Just on raw speed alone for a demo, especially because it's quite small and self-contained, that's going to be a bonus for that. So, so yeah, it's cool. It's very cool. Yeah. Awesome. If you can find a link for that screen, because all I have is Journey Saren's tweet. Yeah, I can. I'll leave it in the notes for sure. Yeah. Who's got this Google thing with me? Yeah. So I don't know if you've seen this. I don't know if many people have seen this. I don't think it's really released yet, but it looks like Google is working on a big query JavaScript benchmarking thing. So they query hundreds and thousands of sites, and they measure the new web vitals thing. Have you heard about that? No, the new JavaScript. Yeah, yeah. I haven't looked into it. I think you posted this in the Discord the other day, right? You posted a link to this. Yeah. So I think it's just a new way of measuring how good your site is, basically. So if you take a look at the new Lighthouse version, version 6, it has things like render blocking time and stuff like this added to it. So I guess this benchmark, it kind of measures this over a large amount of sites. And it shows you how many of the sites are good and how many it needs improvement and how many are bad. And I think also, is this a tool that's actually written in Spelt as well? Yes, yes. That's interesting. So, hang on, Google and Microsoft are using Spelt. Yeah. That's right. So this benchmark, I downloaded it and ran it. And I don't know if it's the real data yet, but it looked very, very, very good for Svelte. Pretty much topped all of the benchmarks. I just thought this was cool. So it seems like this is a relatively new thing. They just announced it on, I'm on the Chromium blog. They announced it on May 5th, 2020.

 2020, so like less than a month ago. And yeah, the three things, the three new metrics are largest contentful page, first input delay, and cumulative layout shift, which is like re-layouting and all that. These are good metrics. Can we just get them for free? That's great. And re-flowing, yeah, re-flowing your layout is actually quite an expensive operation, isn't it? That's something that, you know, it will get heavily penalized by a tool like this. So that's good to see that's in there. Yeah. And definitely boom for SSR. If you're rendering it statically first, it doesn't need to reflow the layout. That's pretty cool. Yeah. Yeah. So this is not... This is actually written by Ilya Gugorik, who wrote the High Performance Networking book, which is super influential among CURF people. And he gave this talk, which I was really influenced by. I think it was like Curf Matters or like Performance on Now, one of the European talks. And he was like saying, you know, we have all these ways of like yelling at each other about JavaScript bundle size and all that. But, you know, for him, he was like, in order to get to the next level, to the broader audience of people who don't care about like, you know, web dev, Curf stuff, We need to have different ways of communicating what acceptable web performance looks like. And so I think this Web Vitals thing is basically the ultimate vision of that. That's a very good talk. Basically saying, in terms of adoption, there's this curve. It's like a snake, like a pill. And a lot of us are at the head because we spend our free time talking about this. And then we go to conferences and we listen to each other talk about this. And we're only talking to each other in language that we understand, but then there's the body and then there's the tail. And to shift concepts from the head to the body to the tail always requires some sort of perception shift and some sort of machinism, whatever you call it. And so for him, he was like, let's actually just make some more clear metrics. And I think this is often the vision of that. It's a great talk. I don't know if it doesn't look like it in the comments. I guess we'll link it in the notes. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Yeah, sounds good. Sounds good Yeah Awesome Azure static sites I guess we already talked about that kind of Yeah but it just another tweet isn it by the guy who kind of split ahead of that project So we can link that in the notes as well. It's an interesting one. Yeah. All right. Should we go with keying stuff? Yeah. Okay, so this is my thing. Yeah. What is this? Yeah, so the reason, I brought this up was because I'm not sure how to do this in Svelte. So the approximate cause of defeat was, this thread was Sebastian Markola from the React team saying, you need, you know, I'll just read it out. He says, my first contribution to React was the heuristic for key warning. In my opinion, it has worked fairly well to avoid certain problems, but it's given me a misinterpretation that you only list, you need keys. You need keys on single items too. In a master detail, the detail should have a key. So what we're talking about here is, for example, if you're writing Slack, right, and you're jumping between channels, and you have a half complete message in one channel, and then you sort of switch the message. If you use reconciliation, then it's, and you don't like sort of throw away all state and then re-rendered everything from scratch, you might have some leftover state in some the components that don't get swapped out. Like, they just have this perspective that some props have changed, fine. But I still have local state in my component, and I should persist that, right? Because that's all I do. So this whole idea, the way that React uses keys is that, like, if any keys change, it's just going to revalidate the entire part of that tree, right? And that's a, you know, that's a philosophy of React, which is we are just going to err on the side of re-rendering everything and making sure you have consistent data, a consistent state with your data. And that's something that's felt like that's the opposite of, right? We choose to persist everything if possible and not re-render it unless we market with the dollar labels in time. So, I mean, I guess the main doubt I had, which I raised with you guys when I think you had viewed that we were in this chat, was basically, how do we know when a prop is paged, and how do we react to that change And maybe also have a maybe maybe also it reacts to differences and changes right Like if the prop is updated from like old value to new value we need to take new value minus old value and then calculate something. And it turns out, because I haven't used Scallv before Scallv3, it turns out that there was a mechanism for this in Scallv2, right? Maybe you guys want to talk about that. yeah i i have no idea about this spell to stuff so yeah i mean yes gone gone from my mind a bit of salt to the way the way that it works now it seems very alien to me um i i don't remember how how it worked actually i mean i never knew the internals of salt two at that time anyway i barely know the internals of salt three but i definitely didn't know the internals of salt two i was very much a consumer. It's not an internal thing. It's just more like Svelte 2 exposed an API that says it was like, you know, prop. I don't know, like before and after and then... Yeah. You could calculate yourself if you wanted to. Oh, so yeah. So what there was, there was two because Svelte 2 worked as an object you could export. Every component was an object that got exported, a default export. And it had a bunch of properties on it which relate now to the kind of hook style things that we have in Svelte 3. and it had, it was something like before update, after update. Yeah, they were named like that. But what it gave you, which Svelte 3 doesn't, is it gave you one is like an object with a list of keys that are true if that property is changed in the component. And this is five for every change. And then the second thing it gave you was the current, like the new state of the component. And the third thing it gave you was the previous state of the component. So you could always compare and you could not only immediately see what to change, but you could also see the old and new value, which is great for things like undo or persisting in old states or doing all sorts of comparisons. And that's actually a lot harder to do in Startup 3. I'm not sure why this decision was made and why, you know, the state hooks are in Startup 3 can't have those things passed into those parameters. I think I even questioned this recently. but yeah so actually there was a I wouldn't say better mechanism because a lot of things in Svelte 2 weren't better but definitely a different mechanism for managing state that way that may have made some tasks easier. Maybe I jumped a little bit too far into the way I would solve it but first of all do you both understand the problem that we talking about like refreshing components when you switch Yeah, to an extent I understand. Right? I don't think there's a way to do that in scope. It's entirely possible that there isn't a way, actually. It's entirely possible. That seems like a pretty big detail. Yeah, I mean... So I have a lot of trust in Svelte's, you know, the way it handles what should and what shouldn't be re-rendered on a page. But then, again, I'm no expert in efficient rendering and non-efficient rendering. This isn't about efficiency. This is more about just, like, do we have a way to model some sort of behavior that we want, right? And in this case, it's this whole idea of how do we re-render entire trees? So I think you can actually solve this with like a... Yeah, exactly. But that's kind of weird. It's hacky, right? Yeah, it's hacky. You stick one item in an each. Yeah. Make it an iterable and then you go... Yeah, add a key to it and hope that it works. Okay. I think basically the only way for me to figure this out is actually to build it myself and satisfy my own curiosity. But I mean, I think it's an interesting problem that actually made me question, like, is this... Because, like, for me, this really goes down to the fundamentals of, like, what is the difference between React and Svelte? React revenders everything by default and Svelte does it. Most of the time, this is a benefit, except for stuff like this. Yeah, it's reasonable. I mean, there's always that mystery for news, especially where if you change an item that exists inside an array or inside an object. Oh, yeah, I tripped that up. I still tripped myself sometimes on it, and it is a weird one. And, you know, the wreath has been explained a million times, and I still probably don't fully understand it. But certainly the way that reactivity works is probably beneficial, again, for rendering, but not for the sort of logically how you're at the work. Yeah. Oh, well. I guess I'll be the game when I go back, because it's not that hard. I just want to make sure that we have a,

 This is probably one of the things for the recipe list. If you need to reinvalidate a whole set of trees, how do you do that best? I really don't want to recommend having a single each. And if you get around to doing this process up, then maybe that'll be quite a nice follow-up in the next podcast as well. Yeah. Okay, let's start this. So I think someone said something about a pub quiz. Yeah, I mentioned in the channel that I was thinking, you know, people are asking questions in Discord about, you know, who said this the other day, who tweeted this, whatever. And I thought, well, I don't really know, actually, but it would make a good pub quiz. So maybe there's great for having at some point a sort of weird, like, you know, Jitsi or whatever-based pub quiz where everyone can join in. We can ask ridiculous questions that only somebody who religiously followed Rich on Twitter would get or something, you know. That sounds like a lot of fun. it could be fun who knows it could be fun so I fun fact I you know in React we have some really good meetups and I won these pair of $200 headphones wow based on a pub quiz exactly like that one of the questions was literally what did the other people want to treat today and the room had no idea and I was just like I I happened to see it so that's bizarre I guess you religiously followed Dan Ibramov, right? He's a pretty good way to learn that. It wasn't a bad strategy. All right. So, yeah, this TypeScript support, how's that coming along? It sounds like it's coming along quite nicely, right? Don't give people hope. I don't know. yeah i i wrote this this question actually but um the reason i did it actually is because my wife has started using svelte now so she she had a little idea for like a little project she wanted to build and she started using svelte for it and the only reason she's considered svelte is because it has typescript so she literally is those people who can't use a phone without without typescript right but uh the thing that which struck me quite interesting was that you know She actually got it and started with it quite easily. And yeah the TypeScript support really does work What does she use Which of the attempts are Are we talking about the language server that being developed Do you know what I actually don know What she does is she's writing spell components with types actually in them and she's declaring interfaces and all that sort of cool stuff. To me it looks like what I would imagine a spell component written in TypeScript is. It's using lang equals ts. I'm assuming it uses the language server. She's using the VS Code plugin, so that uses the language server. But this is what I say to the case. What I'm saying in the channel is people are saying that the support is actually really good now, and for most people it should be in a good enough state to use as their main thing and actually build full applications using TypeScript. I don't claim to know anything about TypeScript, but it's certainly interesting. I think it's probably a bit hard to... like there aren't any guides, I think. For example, like a tutorial, like showing you exactly how to make the new like beta plugin work with the pre-process. Yeah, I think it's maybe too early for that, right? Because if it's literally in development and it's just coming to fruition now, it's going to take a little bit of a lag till the guides arrive. I mean, my question is who's working on it? A guy called Orta, who I believe is from the main TypeScript team. He kind of spit-heads it, and then there's a bunch of other people who want to use TypeScript and have been contributing to that language tools repository on GitHub. Yeah. My understanding, and I could be wrong, but my understanding was Ordo just kicked it off, and his intention was never to get super involved. Sure. I know him, so. Yeah. Oh, yeah. And so, like, I think what I've been looking for, And again, this is one of my, you know, someday I'm going to get to this project, if no one gets it first. It's someone spearheading this thing. And there's been various attempts, but I hadn't seen sustained effort, which is why I was, you know, I've been more skeptical about progress. I mean, obviously it's going to eventually happen. It's just like someone needs to take charge. You know, it's something that I would love to pick up on this because I think basically every dev tool is turning towards having a language server. It used to be the norm that when we code we just edit text files right And then we run something Right now, we, and now we're moving towards a phase where we have a running server as we code that gives us suggestions, that gives us links and checking and critifying and all that. And so I think this is a very important development in all of that and I think Spult is having that grown I just don't know if the progress has been as substantial as you say, I think what your wife is seeing is the pre-processing within the script tag but maybe not the language of the language tool I think there's been more progress actually from what I understand, I haven't tried it out but if you look at the in the language tools Discord and you follow the repo, it shows some pretty new... No, the channel. Yeah, language tools. Yeah, so the repo shows some activity. So it's not like nothing's happening. Obviously, it's not fully baked yet. Yeah, I was just going to say, it's always the most recently active repository on the Svelte GitHub organization from what I can see. I don't really understand exactly what's going on there, but it seems to me like there's definitely people running around it and working on it. So yes, I think, Sean, you're right in that what my wife is actually using is just TypeScript and the script block and the component. Yeah, pre-processing, which is also now a core part of Svelte, right? We've taken on the Svelte pre-process as an official project. So hopefully that helps tie things together a bit. We should have, so I see some names, half Nelson and Martin. Yeah. We should have one of these people on and just get them to walk us through. Because if I want to contribute, I don't know where to start and probably it'd be good to have them on as probably our first guest. Yeah, that would be very cool. I like that, yeah. That sounds good. Which is a nice segue into the next thing. Yeah. Yeah, so I mean, what this is around new contributors. So I'm seeing more and more people come to the Discord and asking about how they can contribute to the project And granted we don have we haven put a huge amount of time into making this easy for newcomers and Svelte can be quite a big water climb it's quite a steep learning curve to get involved in it. What we've tried to do is tag some sort of easier or more understandable issues as new issues, sorry, good first issue the standard kind of GitHub thing. So you can filter the issues on GitHub by that label. The contributing MD has been brought up to date, although it's quite a large wall of text at the moment, so we hope to improve that over time. And again, talking to the Discord and asking in the internals channel or whatever about how to do the exact part of stuff you want to do is going to be probably a good first step, and then we can give you more guidance. So it's something we're actively working on, but it's not something we've actually put a lot of time into right now. Small isolated PRs, if you're going to add a feature, ideally there's a bug backing the feature you want to create or the PR you're trying to create or the issues you're trying to fix and then again like tests are really important so we don't get regressions and ideally not you know trying to to change too much in one PR keeping it very isolated is probably the most important thing because you know the time the bigger the PR the more time there is involved in actually vetting that PR and determining that what it's doing is is not going to break things for users or is not going to have an unwanted side effect and things like that. So yeah, just that, basically. Sounds good. It sounds good. I think it's always very needed, and I'm always very frustrated with contributing in the MBS where that basically tells you the problem with install dependencies. Yeah. Not very helpful. Yeah. So actually, it's probably worth saying that both Sapper and Svelte projects, if you check them out, they follow the kind of standard Svelte project template whereby you can run npm run dev and it's going to live reload your dependencies. So it'll actually build a copy of Svelte that you can npm link into your other project and it will live reload that every time you change the Svelte core code base. The same with the Sapper code base. If you're working on docs, so you're going to be editing the actual websites, Those are contained within those projects in the site directory. And that's the same, exactly the same thing. It's got its own set of dependencies. You do npm run dev and you've got a library loading version of the site that you can edit. So I think the idea is convention over configuration

 It's running the same process you would use to create a start out from the template. So, yeah, it is very much like check it out and do this, but it's a work in progress to improve that. Yeah. I think for me as, you know, I'm not a maintainer. I probably should do more in terms of, like, helping to solve those first issues because, you know, I haven't done that much. But one thing I am looking for is some sort of roadmap. the one you know i think there can be a lot of perception this is and again isn't this is a lot of my wheelhouse like perception make this perception of momentum right like uh in much the same way that we have problems so like we have merging of stuff in but we don't really have like major versions or not major versions or minor versions where we actually sort of do features up and say, like, this is a new thing installed. Everyone please know about it. And then having some sort of progression of direction, like, this is what we're building for the next six months and six to 12 months, and having people rally around that. Like, if it's just bug fixes, fine. But, like, I think something that really inspires people is to not only contribute, but also use the projects, is an idea of the future direction. I think that's something that we're... It's for sure, like, a marketing thing as well, right? Totally. To the point where... I've been involved in this interesting discussion of CSS4. Do you all know about it? No. So there is such a thing as CSS1 and CSS2, but there's actually no such thing as CSS3. CSS3 is just a marketing term because the CSS working groups split everything up into 15 different very hard-to-follow working groups. And all of them have different stages, and you're supposed to keep track of all of them. Surprising, you know, not to anyone's surprise, they realize that this is very hard to follow. So now they're like, okay, they're like, we like the working groups, but now let's, like, collectively get together and decide what is CSS for and have a marketing push for people to adopt, like, the latest features. and it's stuff that you already know, like, really and stuff like that, but just to have, like, some sort of step change in, like, everybody should be upgrading to this now. And so that an interesting apparently this happened for other things as well like CSS5 I not sure what this formal spec for that is but apparently versions matter is my conclusion Isn't that what Google did with Google Chrome? They just switched to like a two-week major version bump schedule or something like that? Was it two months? Something like that? They have like a thousand people on this. Oh, yeah, yeah. I mean, we can't do that, of course. Yeah, well, I think the start versioning is based on Semba very strictly, right? It's based on we're not bumping the major version unless it's a completely different language almost. We're not bumping the minor version unless it's sort of a significant change. The patch version is the one that usually gets bumped. I guess that's it is what it is, I guess. There's the only way you can say it. there's not much consideration that's being put into a marketing sort of process for it but I think that maybe in the future that might be a nice thing to have because again I do agree that it is important to have versions reflect progress in a framework with regards to roadmaps actually we do have roadmaps now I actually built them they're in a github project for each project they're not by any means comprehensive because I built them when Rich was on hiatus and obviously I don't want to be the one who defines the roadmap for Svelte, right? There are just things in there that I know are in the pipeline or upcoming or have a significant focus, so those have been put in there. But generally, it is something we hope to build out very soon to actually have a more definitive roadmap of what's coming. It probably won't affect the versioning right now, but it's a step in the right direction. Where do we find this? I'm on the web. Yeah, so the roadmaps are, if you go to GitHub and Svelte or Sapper project, there's a tab in the GitHub called Project, I think, the project boards. And there should be one in each called Roadmap. It has things like router and typescripts and stuff in it right now. Ooh. And live reloading. And not live reloading, yeah, hot model reloading. Yeah, that's going to be nice. So, one's a... Oh, so, Lihau from... Yeah, you guys know Lihau. He's working on a... So, I'm very excited by what Evan Yu is doing on Beat. Apparently, it's pronounced Beat. That's right, yeah. I prefer Vite but I don know Anyway so it very exciting It makes for very fast reloads during dev Yeah And it just makes sense. So we have working on a Svelte version of this and I think that would take care of hot module reloading basically. Seems like it's just built into the browser if you just reflect the module. Yeah, which is very awesome. It's a weird one because obviously I think Rick's started off the hmr thing with roll up um and that's now some of that support being merged into start the core which is great some hooks in there now um but what's also happened at the same time is he started experiments with null up which is basically roll up without um the uh the tree shaking so it's a lot faster i i believe it's almost instant um but at the same time as that snowpack was there and so he does a snowpack one as well uh the snowpack maintainer is now perked up and taking an interest. So he's willing to do anything at all to try and forward the Sapper and Svelte support for Snowpack. And then at the same time, there's Vito, Vito, whatever it's called. So there's actually now four different ways that you could potentially get live reloading work working to different levels. So it's going to be interesting to see which one we sort of latch onto. Vite, of course, uses Roller Thunder the Hood, I think. Got it, got it. Cool. that's all I got for this contributors thing. Have you got anything? I'm good. Contribute. If you want to contribute, come to the start of Discord and have a chat and see what we can do. Next one. Official router? Do you have any information on this? On? The router? No. other than it's now definitely planned router, router, who knows it's definitely planned, it's definitely in the pipeline it's something that's being discussed, which is good but yeah, as for progress on it so far we haven't done much on it other than start some preliminary discussions around how it will work so the view is it will be maybe a component based router and one of the things I really want to get in there is route protection. So essentially when you change route checking against a sort of a guard to say is this user allowed to access this route I think those are two probably the most requested features so hopefully it will follow at least those two things. Yeah, yeah, it will come when it comes. There's definitely no definite schedules for it right now, but it will come. Yeah, the authentication thing is something I've struggled with a little bit in the app world, and basically there's two ways of doing it. like what if someone tries to access a route that they don't have permissions to, either you can kick them off to a login page or you can, and actually, I think that's what most people do. You like redirect them somehow. I think that actually the better experience and the better way to do it is just to render a login screen right in that route. And then once someone logs in, just like stay at that route or jump them back and forth, just stay at that route and then just re-render with what you're supposed to have now that they're authenticated. Do you know what I mean? Yeah, I know what you mean. And there's a third way. You can actually do like a sort of a modal in the same route that will allow you to log in. There's obviously various complexities with that because you're essentially rendering the same route with different content. I don't think flicking between routes in an application that's an SPA is particularly heavy because it is effectively all a single page anyway. But yeah, I agree we should be flexible in that there should be an option to have different ways of doing that login screen. I actually don't mind linking to a login page with a notion of where I came from. But yeah, I think also having it in the same route without changing the URL or pushing history state is actually quite desirable because it does mean you can maintain going back and forth between routes in your application once you're logged in. So, yeah, it's definitely something interesting. Yeah, yeah. Well, I just hope that gets designed in. I mean, it's an open source project, right? So we've got the router card in the roadmap, so feel free to add an issue to that or a task to that to say, you know, how about if it did this? Yeah. It's an open consortium, I guess. I'll be watching it for sure. Cool. I guess the last item is my thing. Did you have something? I don't know who put this in. Did you have something that you wanted to ask? Or did you just want to general update? No.

 I put it in because I just thought maybe it's worth a mention. It's interesting stuff. Yeah, thanks. Yeah, so I've been writing this book for two months. It's 400 pages of Dev Career Advice. I didn't know I had that much of me. But I think there's a lot to say. It's really surprising that there's so much content about... Just look at Dev Career Advice content. How to learn to code and get your free job. And then there's how to pass a technical interview. And that, like, apparently is, like, 90% of, like, you know. If you look at just, like, the sheer amount of books and, like, long content and, like, how important this is, actually, like, the technical interview is, like, maybe half or, like, less than half of, like, what you interview for when you interview. Like, the rest is, like, fit and, like, you know, how do you market yourself? And then, like, forget the interview. Once you got the job, the other 99% of your time in the job, there's not that much guidance. And then there's a big gap of do whatever. And then somehow you come out as a senior engineer. And then everyone assumes that you want to be an engineering manager. So the scope for how do you become a good individual contributor and how do you excel at that, I think is undercover. covered and I think that's what I'm targeting. Basically I call it the early dev career or I guess I also call it the coding career, like the part of your career where you actually meant to code as the main part of your job instead of managing, design docs, whatever. Yeah, meetings and all that sort of stuff. It's good because it's a vital thing I think that people can enter, I mean same as any industry I suppose, but especially the dev industry where it's quite a high bar in terms of like things you have to understand in order in order to sort of um you know progress your career i think it's nice to have that sort of guidance so yeah this is good i've skimmed it a bit and uh looks nice i i have some some chapters that i want to take a take a more detailed look at but i'm i'm curious though like how do you find the like you mentioned on twitter you you were doing like editorial, you're sending it to editors and stuff? Yeah. How are you finding that? Is it the first time you doing something like this Yeah first time I doing something like this Basically I have a mentor who has written a book before So I asked him what he does And then he was like yeah I just use Wordy So like Wordy, like W-O-R-D-Y. And they just have a bunch of, you know, professionally trained editors who will give you a quick turnaround on stuff that you send in. You can just send in a Google Doc or a Word Doc or a block of text and they'll edit it for you. and it cost something like seven sets a word and so for him it cost 500 bucks to edit his whole book which I thought was a reasonable expense given that he made 70k on it but I think for me it cost a lot more because I have so many pages so I was like this is great, it only cost 500 bucks but no, it's like per word So, uh, exactly. We're trying to be, um, and, and so I calculated, I, I, I spent like, I spent some money on, on like doing some trials just to see also like, I think, you know, not all editing is the same. Some editors you just work better with than others. So you just have to try a few times to see, to see who you like and what style adds value to you. Because some, some of them like, sure, they will change the capitalization and they'll change your dashes to end dashes. but it's not really adding value. They're not making the writing anywhere. So I think, you know, I engaged three editors from there, and I think two of them were good. And I'm just trying to figure out what works best. But I did work out that, like, if I was going to do this whole book, edit it, it probably costs something like $8,000 to $10,000. Wow. Yeah, way too much. So I cannot edit all, professionally edit all of it. I can just focus on the most important chapters in my book. I have to, like, you know, among all my children, I have to pick my most favorite children. Because, like, you know, I have a sense of, like, what people are going to focus on because, you know, people know my writing and stuff. So I can at least make sure those are professionally edited, and then the rest can be a little bit more of a mismatch. It doesn't matter. But that said, I have had volunteers from, like, people who follow my work to actually come in and edit. So right now I have a guy, Nat Sharp, who's actually helping me. It was on a free basis but now I paying a little bit but definitely not as much as one of those professional just because he wants to help out um and uh and then that really it really nice like uh for example um you know this is also my first like self-publishing book so i don't know anything about typesetting for a book right i don't know the tool set and anything like that so i published i think the version that you got uh is the is the one where i didn't know stuff and now it's it's really badly typeset. Then I had a professional book designer come in to my DMs and go like, yo, your book looks terrible. Oh, wow. Honestly. It does look a lot better now. I learned a few things about how types are set within books. Basically, you need to learn latex for that. If you thought JavaScript was complicated, you should learn latex. Oh, God. Yeah, I've seen latex a long time ago and nope. It's fun that they also do double pass rendering which is kind of like what you do in React for suicide rendering. Anyway, yeah so it's a whole education in how to self-publish a book and I think that's an interesting you cannot really figure out on your own because there's just a lot of bad advice on Google and you just need some friends who have seen this before and you can just lean on them and help you out. Sounds good. So what's the next step? When are you, what are you doing next? Are you doing some vlogs, right? Yeah, so I'm vlogging every day because I think the launch period is something that's very crucial leading up to a launch. And I think other people, including myself, would want a nice guide of what's worked and what hasn't worked. Obviously, I haven't done this successfully before, so I'm just vlogging on my own and just sort of recording my lessons as I go along for others to follow or make fun of. But yeah, so I've been blogging since T-14 and then I'm counting down every day. So today is T-7, which means I have exactly one week to go. I'm planning to launch a free chapter on T-3 and then I'll soft launch on T-1. And the T-0 is the real launch, but I want to make sure that I have everything on the at least on the like the payment side and all that working so that people when I don't launch people can't buy the book the expectation is that I hopefully have you know like a thousand people buying I am giving a quarter of the sales to FreeCodeCamp basically helping think about the next generation of developers I, you know, I've benefited a lot from FreeCodeCamp. And they need the money. Because right now, there's more people than ever trying to learn to code. And not that many people are trying to donate. Which is like a perfect storm. Yeah, I mean, the... You run a non-stop. the corona times probably came at a somewhat good time for writing a book kind of, in a sense. Well, I mean, the reason you're seeing so many people write a book is because, yeah, I mean, I'm out of a job, right? So I don't have any other source of income. So it's a little bit for myself, but I felt a lot better once I worked out to deal with the digital content, like, hey, I can just help you out as well. It's a natural progression. Once you learn to code, you should learn everything else. So, yeah. All right. Yeah. So I think the main thing about launching, there's so much launch advice. So much. I have a launch cheat sheet about how do you prepare your launch tweet? What works on product trends? What works on hacker news? how do you uh what is what landing page how they do works what kind of email titles and email sequences work um i think that the main principles that go above that are basically let everybody know when you're launching way ahead of time and let them know how much work you're putting into it so that they have confidence uh in recommending your work sight unseen um like people like they just trust that you've done so much because right yeah you you put in the work And I think that's the main principle I'm following. As far as I'm concerned, if I do that and I screw up on everything else, it'll still be great. Let's hope it works out for you. All right. Should we get into the thing that every podcast has? Sick picks. Do you guys have any? What do we have? Sick picks? That is true. I have one. I can go. I can go. You guys can... Uh-huh. Yeah? Unless you have something. Yeah, I have this... I found... I started using this new, like, analytics

 site because I kind of don't like Google Analytics. So I want to give a shout out to a company called Plausible. They do like cookie free analytics. Obviously it's not as like you don't get as much information as you do from Google Analytics, but it's nice. You don't use those at any time. Yeah, that's true. I can get statistics. Did you see that Project Wallace also is using Spokes? So there's a bunch of these privacy-focused analytics companies. I think it was something that was kicked off by Fad Anomic Analytics, which I know of. I don't know about it, but they're cool. And so I don't know. I'm just commenting that one of the competitor companies is using Spokes. oh maybe i should use that yeah yeah um actually so so yeah i do i do have one actually so um browserify which i'm sure not browserify that right browser stack which everyone obviously knows um because it's quite it's been around for a long time but i've never really used it just heard about people saying it good um for testing in various browsers on various platforms i applied for their open source account on behalf of the Spelt organization So they give you a certain quota and they granted it within a couple of hours which is awesome. So now we have a proper browser testing stack, which may enable us to actually say definitively what browsers are and are supported, how you can support all the browsers like i11 and stuff like that in a more definitive sense rather than relying on someone's particular laptop and stuff. So yeah, shout out to BrowserStack because they did a really good job. Yay, BrowserStack. It's an incredible product. I've never seen... I didn't know how good it could be. It's really, really impressive. That's awesome. I should definitely try that. Sorry? Do we support IE11? So IE11 is supported but you have to pass it through Babel and you need a polyfill for fetch and things like that if you're using fetch. So yeah, It is supported as this old edge. It's a small amount of either Buble or Mabel config, but it does work. Very good. And just one more thing about browser stack, actually. The thing that really impressed me was they give you local host access. So you're in a browser using a VM on a real machine somewhere in, who knows, somewhere in America probably. And they give you a little script to download, and you run that script and it will access local hosts on your virtual and on your virtual on your browser instance just like that Zero zero It really impressive So yeah. Yeah. That's great. That's great. I don't know what to say about that. It's really like rocket sites for me. Yeah. I'm more familiar with like mobile device farms. You know, like literal phones and then they test it. So yeah, it's got that too it's got real devices per sensitive stuff and compatibility issues on mobile cool that's that's important um for me um i just i just you know i i shared uh my podcast listening history um i don't know if you uh you guys are big podcasters i i i'm basically permanently on podcast. Oh, I have these basically AirPod clones. Where are they? I don't know. I can't find them right now, but basically my mom got me $30 AirPod clones and they're great. Where can we get them? I'll put in the... I think I have their Basius N-Cook W-O-1s. So I'll put that in our chat. Cool If you want to check that out But also I just shared my listening history because my app shows me what I listen to the most So the top podcast I listen to is Software Engineering Daily That's a good one. That's a good generalist thing. And I've been on, which I consider probably the achievement of my career. It's all downhill from here. And then Conan O'Brien needs a friend. So Conan's new podcast. and I think all the comedians are I don't know I think comedians are very well served by Western Kingdom Podcasts they don't have to perform for camera they can just be funny on audio and that's great so I just have this list and I highly recommend the Scrubs Podcast I don't know if you guys watched Scrubs at all back in the day I used to a long time ago so two actors Zach Rapp and Donald Faison They're actual real best friends, and now they're doing a rewatch. So it's kind of inspired by the screen. They rewatch everything, and they'll tell you what went on behind the scenes. And it's the two main actors, you know, and they're really funny, and they're really talented. So I've been enjoying that a lot. Nice. Sounds good. All right. That's it, I guess. That's a wrap. That's a wrap for another episode. All right. Thanks for organizing this, as always. Yeah. Thanks, Yif. thanks to all the listeners as well for listening yeah alright