 Thank you. Hi Svelte Summit. Today we will take a look at the two most commented issues in the SvelteKit repository. Both issues deal with internationalization, or in short I18n. SvelteKit has reached the stable 1.0 release a few months ago, but still does not provide a solution if you want to make your applications available in my total languages. I'm Ivan and I want to show you how a possible solution to those two issues could look like using the inlang SDK. Some of you might know me from Typesafe i18n, a lightweight and fully typesafe internationalization library that works with our frameworks. Also with Svalkit. And there also exists some other solutions that you can already use to localize your project. project. I have learned a lot over the past two years while maintaining TypeSafe i8nm. Each project is somehow different and probably 90% of questions I get asked is related to how to set it up for a specific project and its needs. There is a documentation and there are also examples but those can't give you the answer that matches 100% to your project. You will need a deep knowledge of SvelteKit and the library in order to not mess things up if you want to change the default behavior. A better approach is needed. So I teamed up with Inlang to solve those problems And now I will show you how easy it should be to use i18n in any project I have cloned an empty Svelkit application and have added a file for the English and another file for the German translation Let's install the inline SDK. As a next step we add the inline plugin right before the SvelteKit beat plugin. That's all you need to set it up. We can now go to our pluspage.swelt file and render our first message on the homepage. To do that we import the inlang function and call it with the key we have defined in our language files. Let's also add two buttons to switch between languages. Open the terminal and execute npm run dev. We now see the German message appear because my browser is set to German. I can switch language by pressing the buttons and if I reload the page the language does not change because it gets persisted in local storage. But what if we want to include the language information in the URL? We can open the inline.config.js file that was automatically created previously and change the language negotiation settings to URL. If you visit the homepage the server should read the exit language header and redirect us to the preferred language version we have set in our browser. Let's start the server again and we see that we got redirected to the German page. We once again can click on those two buttons to switch language. But this time also the URL changes. If we open the source code view we see that server side rendering works too. And to prove that the server is doing the redirect we can try to visit the homepage but we immediately see the German page because we got redirected. But what if you want to output a static application where no server is involved? Let's do that by setting the prerender option to true in the root layout file and see what happens. We don't really see a difference in the browser, but if we visit the homepage in the source code view again we no longer get redirected If we visit the homepage in a regular way JavaScript clicks in reads the language information from the browser and redirects me again to the German page So why are those two issues still open? This one is already 4 years old and the work on it hasn't even started yet. You need quite some time to go over our comments. Making a project available in multiple languages is not just replacing text A with text B. It can take a lot of effort if you want to do it right. Auto-detecting the user's preferred language, creating a SEO-friendly output, alternate links, plural rules, number and date formatting. Do you offer server-side rendering? Is your application static or serverless or does it run on a Node Server? You should also do some bundle optimization at the end to offer your users the best possible experience. That's a short summary of those two issues. Each decision you make will affect the way how you need to set up the internationalization library. Inlang automatically adapts to your project needs. Remember, we never have dodged any code to set up an i18n library. We never saw any implementation details. How easy is that? Apart from this Weltkit integration, Inlang provides also other tools to make internationalization as effortless as possible. I have published this example to GitHub and now I can open up the Inlang editor to see my messages appear. I can add Italian as a third language and let AI translate the message for me. Commit, push and go back to VS Code. We can pull the changes and start the dev server again. Now we have a third language and it renders on screen, without touching a single line of code Inlang also provides an IDE extension Here we forgot to extract some hardcoded string We can use the extension to extract it. Commit, push, and reload the editor. The new message shows up and any non-technical people technical people can edit and translate it. In the background, inlang uses your git repository as a source of truth and synchronizes all changes using commits. We started with the development of the SDK just a few weeks ago. The base is already here. We try to automate as many things as possible and add configuration options where it makes sense. Some things may not be ideal right now. We needed to find some creative ways to deal with some limitations SvelteKit currently has, but we already have talked with the SvelteKit team and together we are looking for a solution to make things more simple. We need your feedback. Try it out and let us know what you think. We are just at the beginning. Tell us what features do you want to see. This feedback helps us prioritize our development efforts. In a few months we want to offer the GoTo solution when it comes to internationalization in any SvelteKit project. Other meta-frameworks like NextJS will follow. All tools I showed you today are open source and you can use them for free. They also work independently from each other. If you have an existing project you can try the editor first without refactoring your whole codebase or you could use the SDK also without the other tools. I hope I could give you a quick overview of Inlang and show you how easy it should be to localize a project. We take the burden off your shoulders and hopefully Recheris is able to make that satisfying click on both issues.