 So SvelteKit and remote, full stack apps in minutes. I will cheat a bit, but. So let's do a little bit of history. Of course, not this history. A few years back, we started doing a lot of websites with back-end. On the back-end, we had to model data. You have to build CRUD APIs. You have to do data validation, but you showed a bit here with actions. You have to take care about access control because you don't want everyone to access your API randomly. You have to remove the proxy. Yes. You have to deal with an ORM or to do some SQL queries. You have to deal with pagination, sorting, filtering. You do all this in the backend. And then what? Yeah, you still do, yes. So actually, yes, it will enable. Then comes a bit the error of frontend, because before everything was backend only, and then comes the frontend, you know, these Angular started with this, and then React, Vue, Ausfeld. And in the frontend, what we should do? We should do modeling the data. we call some APIs usually then we validate data on the front end because we don't want to always wait to go and back to the server if we know that we need at least three characters to enter a title it's a bit of shame to go to the back end to tell me oh i need three characters at the same time you don't want to do it two times the validation because maybe on the back end at the beginning it was three and then after it was ten you need to change it at both places Then you need authorization because it's nice also to not do a go and back to the server to know if you can do this operation inserting something or not. Next step, now we have server in the front end. Maybe you are confused, but actually when we speak about SSR, server-side rendering, actually what we do is it's part of the front end, but it's the server part of it. It's not really the back end. It's another concept to have the backend right so then for newcomers into javascript world i think it very confusing this and then since we have no server in the front end we have routes to take care of and usually components OK And with all this, yes. Actually, even more complicated in the front end, you can also have the back end. Now you are completely lost, but it's OK. It will get easier. This is what I called meta framework. So we have this Nuxt, for example, or we have Zledkit here. And this is a meta framework. And beside this, you could use a library called Remote that will take care of all the redundant things on both sides. So you will see a one-to-one connection between model, back-end, and front-end. And the idea is that all this is shared through Remote. And then you have still few stuff to take care of. And of course, this small stuff to take care of are managed by remote as well. All right. Demo time. Or let's try. So today we will not start from creating a brand application. I already prepared a lot of things and let's see how far we can go. So I have an application. running or should run yes uh with just one page the demo and in the demo page i can see a few topics let's have a look at what is in there so if i go to my demo folder plus page dot felt you can see that i get the remote library and i get a repository of tasks let's go and look what is the task so if If I go there, a task is an ID and a title. You see that on top of it, I have some decorator to know or to teach remote that the ID will be a CUID and the title will be a type string. Just with this, so we can see here on the shared folder task, just with this, I'm able already to see a list of tasks that I defined somewhere. We will go over this example later. So if I continue a bit on the demo page here, I get the repository and this repository, I give it to this remote live. And when I in this remote live I listen to all the changes that happens and I limit only to three results And I able to get these three items If I change this here to four and I save it, of course, it's maybe better if I put it on the side, I don't know. So just by saving this on the front-end side, is doing the right call on the back end to give me now four items. OK, and we can build on top of this. So build on top of this. So this is just the demo to show the repo. But I have some pages which are a bit more complex to get into it. It's a model. It's an entity. Now let's go back to the home page and not look at the demo page, but look at the automatic pages. If you look a bit at shared folder, we have task and we have category. And here I can see already the automatic pages coming, task and category. So if I click on task, I'm able to see a list of tasks. We see seven tasks with a title and a list of tasks here. I said again, we have an ID and a title. and the colon title is called title but let's have a look at the the task repository or entity and over here i can configure a lot of options let's say and one option could be a caption for example the title if i manage to do it if i save that okay normally i don't need to refresh of course I know I do this on the ID you don't tell me anything but one why is he why is he spinning probably JavaScript is I know we found a small issue this morning on my computer that should be good okay so now we have the the colon name is the Why Because the source of truth is this entity this Entity task I don want to go in my application and tune this bit right or left I want everything to be driven from this ID and title on the left here. Then let's add some fields. So a bit of comments, yes. Let's add some fields. So as it looks like a to-do list, let's bring this up. And now we have another kind called a Boolean and this Boolean have a caption. Is it completed? And now I have already my column coming here. All this is back end, front end, everything all together. You can see that I have a grid here and I can already also filter the things by filter by completed, not completed, title, and title. I have a button create. If I go and create, I can see the title. Again, I don't need to tune the caption. It's already creating the title. This is the new to-do. Create. Now the new to-do is coming here. So everything is connected. All what I need to do is to have these fields in the task. Now if I created this option, hide in create, but I will remove this option. And when I go to create, I have this option to put it completed or not. You see what I mean? Everything is driven from the entity, and this is the key point. But usually when you have a to-do list, you don't want to say at the beginning that it's completed. It's more probably an item that you want to check later. So let's remove it from here and go back to the task. At this level, so we don't do much, but we will do more and more. Let's go directly here. I have here an attribute that I called with link. If I put true here, this will become to be a link. And if I click on the link, I go to update task. So it's not only creating a task. Now I can update it. And when I go in edit mode, I have this field. and I can say completed or not completed. OK, so of course the first one. Was completed because I attended this this meetup. The Vienna GS Discover Remote. Yes, I did it in February and right now I speak a lot with the

 guys of remote because we ported the remote into Svelte and SvelteKit. Actually, they did a lot. I just was here to help a bit to say, I do like this, do like that. They were just complaining. Yeah, I was complaining and they were building it. So it's good, but now that we can edit, the thing what we said just before, we want validation and the validation we want to have it on both sides, not doing the same code twice. So what I will do, I will just copy all this title. To be a bit faster, maybe I will grab everything together. And now if I edit this, actually I will go to my mind. or task the new to do and in the new to do i edit and now if i remove everything you see that the placeholder is be creative why because i i set it here placeholder be creative and now we can see on top here that we have a validate array where we see the task is required we need at least one character and we need at least three characters to say it's too short so if i if i just update like this it will tell me oh it's required if i go one character update it's too short but now you wonder maybe oh and on the back end maybe say some rules that you cannot have two times the same task then you have a validator for that called unique on backend but you can also create your own validator calling some sql queries or everything again this is my source of truth now everywhere in my app this will be taken into account So let's go back to let's just cancel. Come back to. Put that. What does I want to show you? Yeah. So let's now add. Two other things. What I would like to get is a due date. and a priority. Again I add on my entity that I will have a date It a date only not a date time The caption will be due date because it meaningful for users And the default due date is something very nice. Right now, plus seven days. Maybe there is a shorter version to do this, but this is my way of doing plus seven days. And then just under, I have a task priority. And here I have to specify that the input type is a select. You know, it's a bit different in HTML. it cannot be an input so if now i go to the new to do and i come here edit it's grabbing a list of priority i can i can put high update and it's all updated and all this is going to this task priority where i define the low high critical and what is in the caption when i have my select again everything driven from my entity now what about these um this authentication or authorization now I was not logged in anything and I was able to do every update which is maybe not not so cool so to enable uh we need to teach remote who is connected to do this I would go to this hook server and I will under load This is coming from let's go and have a look. I don't know if you use this. Autcore, it's a great library. I recommend you to check it. You can use it with Google Authentication. I mean, a lot of authentication factor and you can do also login password and you can actually do also just login. So which what I will do right now. So we'll have two user. I mean, and myself, of course, I will be the admin. and then on remote we just need to tell him how to get the user so to get the user actually it's on the old library it will go into a cookie and then we put it in the session and in the remote we will just look at the session and put the user into it so now that I save this and I need probably another thing that's what everything I need a third thing is to uncomment this. If I not autocadded I need to go to this page sign in On the right side perfect And I even have a hint to know how should I connect So let start with Hermine If I connect, very good, I see the list of tasks, but I still can create. Now let's have a look on how to in task. I want to say the whole task activity, the whole task quantity I want to allow insert only for admin. Yes. And now it disappeared the button create. Why? Just because I'm not an admin guy. You remember I put it the admin just for my old. So if I click on admin logout. Connect here, you see up I have the create button and all this with a simple yeah option and this enable the route to be okay not okay it enable also the the front end to put the link or not so everything driven from the entity here this is remote yes okay so all these options are here and you you might think did the guy or the guys creating this and they think about everything because it looked like they think about a lot but did they think about everything probably not but actually the thing is that you can go in app.d.ts and you can say field option i want to extend and you you saw this hide in create i think that it makes a lot of sense to have this hide in create and you can add to your own object so you can extend what they did and to have this uh where was it the placeholder by default they didn't think about the placeholder actually yes it's in their dock so it's probably the the way to show the functionality but it's a good way to to extend the library you just add more things and you have a lot of things baked in already so what what i wanted to show you more So you have this ordering. All this is working directly out of the box. Ah, I didn't show you the most beautiful part. So let close everything All the data that you are seeing here are stored in one place And to start very easy it stored here In almost your secure database, right? That you showed before. So here we have a task JSON and this task JSON. If I come here, for example, the first one and I say edit. Hi. Update and my database is updating. Great. But this is not going to a professional level. Let's say how you deploy a real website like this. You cannot. So to do this. You will go in this handle remote. So it's where to configure remote and you will say, oh, my database provider. Is. Is a postgreSQL database. So you uncomment this and you just tell him my connection string is in the database URL. And that's it. Now, if I save this, I have only one entry because in my database I had only one test. But let's have a quick look at my database. Where is it? Let's say use this. It's Vienna. And here I have these categories and tasks, which are my two entities. But how what he created the migration script and everything, you know, when you start to have a database, it's a bit more complicated. So what I will do is I will just delete everything. Okay. And I will simply navigate or F5 here on the website to show what's going on. And if I refresh, nothing is going. It's not intended to enter schema. What's going on? yes no ah it's coming so with this plugin create progress connection is looking at your entities and adding all the columns you can manually do the schema migration if you want to but by default it will add everything if you delete something it will not drop anything just in case you did something wrong, but if you want to delete it, you can do it in a manual script later on. So this is the only thing I needed

 To do to do a post gray database connecting with all my entities. So now I go back here task. Create. I have the one Hunter. Now everything is good. I can also whoops. It was not obvious. Maybe at the beginning. Create a second tab here. Create. They can to do. Create and it will refresh on the other side. So everything there is a SSE in the background, server side event to push the event right and left. So everyone connected to the view will get the same data, always synchronized. And all this out of the box with just this repo live listen. That's it. All right, we already looked at a lot of things, right? Order by filtering, create form, database. Yeah, so maybe the next idea. Is just to go on this website. And there you have the exact same code and you will be able to see hopefully the live stuff. Coming up. Ah, whoops. Actually, since it's a free version and not sure it's up and running, so. So the first one going there, wait a bit that it's been up. It's local. Maybe I generated the QR code with localhost, I don't know. But basically that's it. So if you have any question while you are connecting there, I'll be happy to answer them. What remote basically of all the hands? It starts with the model, yes. And then extending with all the functionality around that I showed, the validation, authorization, you don't need to check everything. Everything is already checked, tested, validated and everything. And UI, is it coming to the remote or is it occurring? Today, remote has no UI, so you are free to do what you want. you like tailwind you do tailwind you don like tailwind you don do tailwind Probably in the near future I will bring something on top dedicated to SvelteKit to style everything by default So here I used Daisy UI I don't know if some people know about it. I think it's pretty good to start, kick off a project. The problem is that it's only CSS driven. It's a wish from the creator, which is good. But then we have all the accessibility missing. So I'm trying right now to look at all the accessibility libraries and it's difficult to make a choice. Yeah. I didn't I didn't speak about GraphQL, but if you if you ask me about GraphQL for sure. Let's go there. I didn't even do it in purpose. You know, I didn't write it there. Whoo. So you have one task there or? but you don't see each other or what ah okay good it's working so let's have a look at the yeah it is prepared it's just i didn't think about it and let's have a look two minutes because it's not because i do remote that i forgot to completely my past about graphql because here what i show you is only non-graphql of course since i love graphql we need to have a small look into this so here what i showed you is that when you look at the task you focus on the task when you look at the category so i didn't show you but it's the same principle both with the database so there is nothing got one enter and then it's the same thing right but all these generate also a graphql schema so if i come here um and i do task and i do total count items title if i run this i ran my second to do and hi everyone you know what let's go back just to um non-database so you see how complex is to have no database now say i'm back to my json data so also in testing it makes things very very efficient and fast let's remove it so now with remote by default yeah getting the list of items is very easy but what if i want to get the category of course i didn have my full demo here once upon so in remote as well you can add some some relations between entities And now the relation will be to add a category. We need to refresh your. Category. So each to do task has a category. And now if I get the name, whoops. And I run this. I see that the new to do had none because we didn't specify anything, but here I have this release remote in the category name remote. OK, so now you can start merging multiple entities and in a very complex way. So for example, here I would like to see in the category. If I go here, I have the list of tasks. So I can loop, but the looping would not make a lot of sense. But I could maybe get the number of tasks that are inside this one. So in remote, we have three apparently tasks into this category. Now it starts to make sense and to build the front end on this, it would be like you put this remote and you put a little bracket three maybe. And like this, when you click on there, you can have a list with the three items. I mean, you can imagine a lot of scenarios. Of course, you could do this with regular API calls. Within GraphQL, it's one query and you also discover, this is the single dialog as well, the ability to discover the fields. It's very easy to go there. You saw live here, I added the category. The GraphQL know now that there is a category and it's coming here, and it's coming with all the benefits with the filtering, with the ordering. If I go here, order by ID. But if I can, I can go here, control space, where, where total count is like this or like that, or I can also go here and say I want to go on page three. If I have 1000 item, I want to go to page three, four, five. So all pagination is already baked in. So very good question. GraphQL is still there. And, and, and of course, so this was GraphQL to show you the interface. and now I have tasks and here in task, I have just Houdini doing the call and getting this And if I click here I go to the edit which is the same as before So I think that I actually right now exploring the way of mix and matching GraphQL and plain REST API where it makes sense to just change a form. Because maybe it doesn't make sense there or here. I'm playing around with this. Another GraphQL question or remote question? So what is this replacing actually? huh replacing so today in my daily job i build apps company apps which are dealing with a lot of crude operation this will replace most of my my code because one source of truth and because also of security i mean on my end it's not a big deal the security because it's on a private network but here to make sure that you have allow only for admin i don't think about anything else it's done so no problem on my end it was it's since it's not the focus on the app I don't really care about this so here I will benefit from for free actually about this so yeah maybe one question uh you you kind of showed in the beginning of the presentation that it kind of takes over responsibilities from the backend. How do you integrate that into a set kit? Is that through the hooks? Yeah, so I have here hook server. But if so, I handle it with this library. Then this handle remote, this is the part where it initiate the route slash API slash tasks and everything. Then as soon as you have one more entity, then it will add up into there. And of course, you can customize if you don't want slash API, but you want slash remote. This is all configurable. Then you have my handle GraphQL, which is based on this. By the way, we should always use sequence in a hook. Yes. Yes. Possible. Yeah, it was the creator of this library remote. And actually it was on the. Uh, where is it? Boom. It was on the 22 of February.

 At the end of the talk, I went to see the guy and I thought that this is amazing because I would not need to write a lot of code. I will just use this. And so the day after 23, I did a PR to port this into SvelteKit. I told the guy, your talk is amazing. I will do something on SvelteKit. The day after it was OK, it was a draft. But in the end, in the end, so a few months after, then it's a release of Remult and SvelteKit. And now we are playing around Remult and GraphQL, which should come out any day soon, tomorrow, I mean this week, I don't know when. Oh, everything is open to us, yes. Yeah, actually today it's mainly on React. They have also Angular binding, they have also Vue binding. So since I'm a bit biased into Svelte, I looked a lot into Svelte, but yeah, they have it to a lot of things. By the way, you can also add it on existing project beside an existing project. You don't have to be 100% remote to start remote. You can just be on the side, create one or two entities, play around and that's it. Progressively enhance your app, yes. Maybe one question from my side because it said added to an existing one. Is there a way to like import an existing database schema into Revolve? Yes. So you have another package that introspect post-gray database, for example, and generate all the entities. So it generated what he can. Yeah. Of course, the caption, for example, since the caption or the label is not in the database, then you will not have it. But at least it's doing maybe 80% of the job. And this is what I did for my project actually. So I have everything in a Postgre database. I just point to it and I say please create all the entities Zoom And now I can start with this and play around and Yeah that nice Ah, good question. You will have to ask the guy. Actually, I think I asked already, but I don't remember the answer. Basically use this some sort of raw for him or let's say just, you know, update the data but not use the new island just somehow it's what i'm doing here you see uh task categories yeah but this was basically done by remote so that's like the decoration was creatures or i mean i just need to add here uh another one do they do it live it's maybe wrong yup yup i do yup What else should I do? Nothing else save entities. I need to add it here. The list of entities. Yep. Well, what would be the. I don't know. Yes. Maybe I should do real naming. Oh, it even stopped the server. OK, very good. this is I know I know the copy pasting is not good actually I think that it was saving us time but no it's because now I have my task priority different twice I think people are responsible for two more than you know I can now should be good live demo So maybe you can have a dinner and I'm staying here. Let's just do like this. Please do your job. What are you doing It already here Of course We said it jobs Someone help me By the way, this is a GraphQL. If I remove GraphQL, it's maybe working. That's called. That's cool. I cannot be there twice. Okay. Okay. Completely wrong. It's good. We didn't really the GraphQL one. But this one is good. What did I forgot? Oh, you have export cost get record if you're missing jobs 15, 15. Oh, this is just typing. Who cares about typing? Yeah, but. They also typing. No, they let's let's let's let's let's let's let's. It's maybe because of this. OK. Yeah. You know what? Let's also remove my beauty graph cream. No. what is he doing it is a houdini ah yes Thank you Yes I need to put more. Hopefully the remote guy will not see this. So now we have jobs. And your power is a title. So everything works out of the box. Of course, you don't need my stuff. I mean, it will work. It's just that we have a small bug that we had the same title and then it would not able to recreate the same file, but okay, nevermind. But it could be like a small crude operator for on top of your database, like admin tool. Yeah. Like maybe, for example, I already have the UI and I just wanna switch out maybe what I had before remote and then kind of populates my UI already done yeah because this is only the back end the front end what i showed here it's me creating it so it's on top of remote you can do what you want there so you have what in the back end today oh okay we never know if sentry moves to this how are you required yeah so i will not do it live okay but uh yeah there is already so inside it there is already a lot of method created by remote if you want to you can use knex also i don't know if you know this sql well-known thing it doesn't make sense to use prisma for this for example or does it provide more potential performance yeah i think you don't need prisma because we are prisma would be limited you would do it in this native way and you didn't see me creating any prisma.create or something so there is no no need okay thank you then