 Hi, thanks for tuning into this session on zero config Svelte websites. My name is Jim Fisk, and I'm the creator of a free and open source framework called Plenty that makes creating Svelte websites as easy as possible. I started Plenty because I'd always admire the speed and simplicity of other static site generators. And I want to bring that consistency and performance together with the power of a reactive frontend library like Svelte. Plenty takes a slightly different approach to building web apps than other Svelte frameworks you might be used to. First of all, we cut out the bundler to make the build process as fast as possible. So you won't find Webpack or rollup configuration anywhere in the project. Instead, we take an approach similar to Snowpack that takes advantage of ESM imports, and we create our own purpose-built tool called GoPack to cut out even more time from this conversion process. Another thing you might find surprising is that you don't need Node.js or NPM installed on your computer to run plenty. Our project is built with a Go backend, so we hit the V8 engine directly to compile the Svelte components. This should streamline your project setup and save you some versioning headaches when you're managing different environments across your team. We make these tools optional, so we don't prevent you from using Node.js for your builds if you prefer, or managing individual NPM packages if your project requires it. Since Plenty is the only dependency you need, installation is pretty straightforward, though. You can simply download the binary from the releases tab on GitHub, or you can use one of the supported package managers, including Homebrew, Snapcraft, and Scoop. A new Plenty project is quick to set up using the command line tool. You can easily create scaffolding for your site and automate repetitive tasks. There's also a lightweight web server included that automatically watches your files for changes and makes your local development process easier. Out of the box, Plenty creates HTML fallbacks for every route. This helps search engines index your site to increase your ranking in the results. It also improves the experience for people using screen reader technology to navigate your site. Additionally, it makes loading of your website really fast. So Plenty hydrates your site into a single page application with full reactive components and client-side routing already set up. It's automatically connected to a JSON data source, so you can separate your content from your layout, and an easy to understand folder structure that makes you feel like you're creating a simple HTML website again. We've built an injectable system that lets you override core files, like if you want to customize things like routing, default props, and hydration. I anticipate most people won't need to touch this, but it's there for folks who like to tinker. The core files are hidden by default to reduce the cognitive load it takes to start a new project. It also gives you the benefit of automatic updates across your projects as soon as you want to move to a newer version of Plenty. I'm hoping you find Plenty in an empowering way to create dynamic web experiences without having to manage complex tools or configuration. The default starter should build in less than half a second, so you might be so productive you forget to check Twitter. That's enough talk, though. I think the best way is to see if this is something you like by getting into a project, so let's hop right in. Okay, let's get started by taking a look at a brand new Plenty site. I already have Plenty installed, so I'm going to come over here to my terminal, and I'll go to my desktop first and then run the command Plenty New Site SSS. So this stands for Svelte Summit Site. So that created site scaffolding. So if I list my files here, you can see that we have an SSS folder. If I were to go inside this SSS folder, I can open this now inside of my text editor. So I'm using VS Codeium. Now we can see the structure of our site here. There are some folders that are included by default. We have an assets folder here. This folder is designed to keep all your static assets. Things like images and videos go in here. By default, we have a favicon and we have a logo for our site. Then there's a content folder. This is where the structure for all our data lives. Now we have a couple of content types in here We have a blog content type and we have a pages content type And then we have a single content type called index Inside these individual content type folders there are different pages So we have a post1 and a post2 and pages a similar thing we have contact and about And each one of these content files corresponds to a different route on our website So we'll have a different end node for each one of these pieces of content Now there's also this concept of layouts. This is where the structure of your site comes from you can think of this as the templates or the html for your site and inside here we've broken this up into a couple logical steps so we have our global which is where our html wrapper comes in play we have our head for some metadata and we also have a nav and a footer and then we have a really important folder called content now this corresponds to each one of the content sources that you saw previously so we have blog we have pages and we have this single content type called index we also have an additional content type that didn't have a data source called 404 now it's okay to have templates in this file that do not have data sources just keep in mind that they won't be fed any individual content from those json files and we also have a components folder here which is for reusable components that you can use across your site for instance we have a grid so we use this to display different blog posts on our home page but you could use it for other things as well and of course moving beyond the layouts we have some standard things like node modules these are npm packages we have a git ignore file we have a package.json for managing our node modules and then we have a site-wide configuration file called plenty.json before we go and make any changes let's actually just open up a terminal inside of this project here and let's run a new command plenty serve and this will build our site and start up our local web servers so if we grab this url here and i can come to firefox and open up a new private window paste that in and now you can see our starter website when navigating the site notice at the bottom of every one of these pages there's actually a template reference so for instance if you go to a blog page you'll see that this is the blog template and you can copy that by clicking this button or if you were to go to a regular page you can see that we have a different template here reference for about in contact so i can actually come here copy any one of these templates and then go back over my code editor hit ctrl p to search the file and paste that in there and open up that specific template to see how it's constructed so we can change the format of this page by editing it so i'm going to come down here and add a link and i'll actually add a broken link in order to demonstrate the 404 behavior so let's call this fake it's a fake path does not exist on the site and we'll just name this broken link and if we save that we'll rebuild the site down here in our local web server and if we come back over here and reload our site you'll see that we now have a broken link now if we were to click on this link it takes us to a 404 page automatically now let's take a look at this 404 page how it's being constructed on the back end here so we have this layout content 404.svelte file and you can see we've hard-coded this information into this file now we could easily add a data source for this page so we could come to content and inside our content folder we could create a new file called 404.json and in 404.json we could add any data structure we'd like so for instance we could say title this is the new 404 we could save that and then come back to our 404 page and instead of using this automatic title here we could come up here and we could add a script tag and then in order to get access to that variable you would just write export let title now title just matches the key you put into your data structure over here. This could be anything. For instance we could say custom title Save that And over here we would just reference custom title And then down here we could just use that variable in our template So we could come here and change this to custom title and save that And then if we go to our website and reload the 404 page, you'll see that we get the server-rendered 404 page. So that was the client-rendered 404 page. So let's come back to our about page and then reload our about page. And if we click the broken link one more time, you'll see that this is the new 404 title comes in. You'll also see that a new content page has been added since we have a data source now. So that is showing that it has its own end node. And because we've added that, you could actually also go to that node directly by going 404 and you get the same page here. Now that's one of the nice things about not adding it as a content source because we can actually remove this from the data source completely and just have this not as an end node, but also have it as a behavior when you cannot find the actual page you're looking for. over here to our text editor let's actually just remove this content source here and then we'll have to come back to our template here and let's get rid of this information and let's just hard code this back in here let's demonstrate how to add a new content type let's open up a new terminal down here so we can use the plenty command line tool and notice now that we have only two content types here we have blog and pages and then we have an individual content type called index but we could create a new one so we could say plenty new type and we could name it any type that we want for instance we could just have a new type called cars and if we put this command in there you'll notice that it says that it created a new content source and a new layout so in our content source we have a new folder called cars and that has a blueprint.json file in here now this file is just a specifically named file that helps define the data structure for this content type it's used for things like auto generating new pages and working with a getback cms in order to do content editing but you'll also notice over here under our layout content folder we also have a cars.svelte file now these are basically blank right now so you're not going to see too much difference on the front end of the website at this moment but as soon as you start adding files in here you'll start to notice the difference so let's come up to cars and let's add a new file and we'll just call this one honda.json and let's add another file we'll call this one forward dot JSON and a new file and let's call this one Tesla dot JSON now if we had defined our structure in our blueprint dot JSON previously it would be easier to copy and replicate these files to have the same data structure but we'll just do it manually since this is a simple enough example inside these JSON files you can define whatever data structure you'd like and actually these data structures between these JSON files and the same content type don't even need to be exactly the same although if you have any differentiation between them you need to account for in your template or else you'll get errors let's just make them pretty consistent at this point so inside one of these files i'm going to create a new data structure and inside here i'll say name and i'll just say Tesla and I'll say type and we'll just say electric speed fast and price expensive so you can tell I know a lot about cars by the way I described this so save that and then i'm just going to copy this and i'm going to put this into these other ones here these are just made up so i don know if ford or honda is more affordable or anything like that these are just made up values so don be upset with me okay so we added those different nodes now if we were to go to our site you notice something here if i reload this and let me go to a home page and just reload so we have the honda tesla and the ford pages down here in our all content section but if you were to go to any of these for instance let's go to tesla you'll notice that's a completely blank page that's because the template over here is still blank if i were to go to our cars.svelte page it's completely blank now i could just add some information here so i could add an h1 just say cars page and save this and if i were to come back here and reload you can see that we get the cars page but that's not very helpful because we want to pull the information out from our data source so let's come back over here we know we have a pretty consistent data source they all have these four keys here so we know we can work with those pretty easily let's come back up to the top of our template and let's just define a script tag and in this let's get those variables by export let and then we have name type speed price so we can do name type speed price and then we can start using those variables in our template so let's come down here let's change this to name and then we could even do something like an unordered list here and each one of the list items could be these values so we could say type is type if we save that and come over so we should be able to get different information about these different cars so we can go honda we can go tesla we can go ford and you have all the different information there and it's just kind of working without having to set up too much we didn't really have to worry about the routing for these individual pages we didn't have to really worry about using specific keys for the data structure and then pulling the values into our template was as simple as referencing the keys that we defined in our data structure also keep in mind you have some nice goodies out of the box here so for instance writable stores work out of the box so So you can do things like decrement or increment counters, and these are defined in different components. So if you were to come over here to our site, you'll see here in our components, we have the incrementer and the decrementer, and those keep state consistent between them, even though they're defined separately. So we have over here in our scripts folder, a little helper script called stores.svelte, and that just defines a writable store and defines the count to zero, and then those components can manage them separately. We also have the concept of dynamic components. So for instance, if we were to take a look at our index, dot svelte file and we came down to the bottom we're checking to see if any components are available and then we're looping through those components and just loading them if they exist and if you were to look over here at the data source for that you could see in our index.json file we have this section called components and then we say we want the template component that corresponds over here to this template.svelte file we can define any component we want and you don't have to actually then go and import it specifically in your index.svelte file so you'll notice in here we don't import the template component anywhere we just actually load it dynamically so there's a lot of interesting things you can do with plenty without doing too much customization to it so i definitely suggest starting up the default starter like we did in this video and playing around and just trying to discover how some of this stuff is set up and if you have any questions of course go to our github and just open an issue and we're happy to discuss them with you thanks again for tuning into this session hopefully you learned a little bit about plenty and maybe you're excited to try it in your own projects if you want to help our project out please just go to the GitHub page, that's github.com forward slash plantico, and just give the project a star. It really helps with our motivation to keep working on the project. Now, I hope you enjoy the rest of the sessions and have a great rest of your day. Thanks and take care.