 How's it going, everybody? Welcome back, and let's talk about logic in Svelte. So this is something that I love about Svelte, and even the creator of Svelte, Rich Harris, has mentioned that Svelte is very much like an extension of HTML, and you're going to see that demonstrated here. So as you see, I have a variable fruits, and that is assigned to an array of strings, apple, watermelon, and lemon. And we're going to easily be able to get this on the screen within each block. All right. So then we have fruit. Okay. And what we're going to do is we're going to use a P tag here and we're going to use the curly brackets to render each fruit. Okay. Just like that. Nice and easy. Now, let me just go in here really fast and add a few classes just to kind of make it look a little bit better. So let's do P2, M2, maybe, oops, there we go, rounded dash XL and BG blue, maybe 200. That sounds good. Okay, awesome. And here we are. Excellent And another thing that we can introduce here is an if statement right Right into our markup So let say if true we just going to keep it super simple here Okay and we going to close this with a slash All right so with if statements and each statements we are opening with a hashtag and we are closing with a slash. So that's something to keep in mind here. So let me just save this. As you see, everything still shows. I'm going to turn this to false and nothing shows. So let's go ahead and put this into a variable and then we'll just toggle it and then kind of look at a little mini use case here. So let's go with let is showing and this will just be true we're just gonna sign it to true right off the bat is showing okay awesome so now that we have all this set up let's just make a simple button and we're not gonna style this button we're just gonna say toggle and we are gonna use an on click handler just like we used last time we're gonna use an arrow function just for you know quick and easy implementation and we going to say is showing is assigned to the opposite of is showing Okay awesome So now that we have this if we just toggle just like this you going to see that this if conditional statement is working just fine Now another thing that we can do and let me just go ahead so we can simplify all of our code on the screen here, is I'm going to get rid of all of this, and we're going to use that if statement actually inside of the each block. Now, there's going to be better ways you can go about styling each one of these items, but I'm just going to do it in a really explicit way just so you can see some other looks here. All right, so let's go into this, and we're going to say, oops, there we go, if, and we'll say fruit, and let's actually use the index. that'd be a good idea. So we can just pull out the index by just doing comma and you can type i index. You can really say whatever you want here. And we'll say if i triple equals zero. Okay. So we have that. Let me go ahead and close. Remember we're closing with a slash here. And there you go. We're only showing this one. And we can go ahead and add you guessed it else if Now we say else if i triple equals one and I just gonna go ahead down here and let me make a little adjustment how about this one is blue and the next one that we add we'll just make that pink all right there we go okay awesome and something to really keep in mind here is that the else if has a colon all right so that can be a little bit confusing so we're opening the if with a hashtag as you see up here then we're using a colon for the else if and you guessed it we're going to go back to the colon with an else and let me just go ahead and add this here i need to format a little Okay, awesome. And let's make this, what color should we use? How about green? Okay, awesome. So that's a little bit of conditional statements within an each block. This makes our markup super expressive. It gives us tons of ways to render the UI accordingly, however we would like. this is something that I absolutely love about Svelte and I think you will too so thanks so much for taking a look at this video and I will see you in the next one