 Hello, everyone. Welcome to another episode of Svelte Radio. Today we have another guest on the show, but first, introductions. I'm Kevin, and I run a site called Svelte School, where I teach people about Svelte. And yeah, that's me. I'm Sean. I work as a developer advocate at AWS. And I guess I do stuff on the Svelte Twitters. Hi, I'm Anthony. I'm the CTO of a startup called Bjornk. I'm a supposed Svelte maintainer. And yeah, that's about it, really. I'm also going to introduce the guest because I know everything there is to know about Luke. So our guest is Luke. And Luke is not Australian. That's the first most important thing there. So Luke Edwards is not Australian. He's Californian. That's very important to know. He's also a co-maintainer of Svelte. And he's the creator of Polka, which is an express alternative, which is focused around speed and also modularity, I believe. And he's been recently involved in deploying loads of stuff to Cloudflare work, which is interesting. There's a whole talk on that you can watch. It's also worth mentioning that Luke owns the most number of open source modules on NPM out of anyone. And that's a fact. Wow, really? Anything to add, Luke, apart from that's not true? And that's pretty much it. I do do a lot of stuff in the open source world and I imagine we'll talk about some of that. But for the most part, I just keep my head down and enjoy building things. So that's kind of, whether that means contract work or salary positions doesn't really matter. I just love to get my hands dirty. So you don't code for money as a rule. You code for passion and money as a convenient side. I code for interest. I kind of tell, I turn away a lot of, not a lot, but I turn away clients with that sometimes just because if I'm not interested in it, then it's not going to turn out well and I'm going to find excuses to try to stop doing it. Nice. It's funny because I saw a Twitter thread quite recently about actually what got you into tech and the amount of people who replied by just showing a little dollar emoji was quite shocking, actually. I couldn't imagine being it just for the money. It just wouldn't work for me. I mean, I'd say it's partially for the money for me. Fair enough. I mean, it's not, but you have a passion in it, right? You enjoy what you do. You enjoy advocating as well and that sort of thing. But just for the money just I don know enjoy life right Enjoy life first Yeah I don know I don think i could see myself doing something i didn want to do don want to do no definitely not definitely not well it's also kind of amazing because like some people will make like hard career changes right where they're like struggling and stuff and they'll invest the six months whatever it is maybe less and like dramatically turn their lives around so it does start as just money but like it's so that they can actually do something else and get by better. That's a good point. Maybe people can grow a passion for it when they start doing it. Maybe that's how they got into it, but that's not how they, how they, where they are now maybe. I think that's definitely true. I think that's actually kind of at the core of how I started too. Like I actually was like enrolled in med school. I hadn't started yet. I was doing all the like prereqs and stuff and I guess disclaimer, self-taught, but I was maintaining a nutrition blog to kind of like chronicle my journeys through what would be med school and stuff. And as I'm preparing and like working on this, how do I make my WordPress do X or how to make this better? I just unfolded more and more. And at some point, like someone just handed me a client said, Hey, do you think you can build this? I said, sure. I'll give it a crack. And I got paid. I was like, well, why, why am I going to sign my life away for another like six to ten years before I start getting paid if I can just do this now and yeah then a passion developed because just questions be folded more questions so so you started in WordPress then oh yeah your coding career yeah yeah luckily I have not touched it in it's now been a decade but it's still alive it's still kicking so can you take us through what what your journey has been from WordPress to where you are now? So I mostly started as a designer, actually. So I was doing my own WordPress stuff and, you know, I was focused on design and I wanted cool carousels and stuff. So my first, that first client I was talking about was mostly a design work. And then I just implemented it in like basic HTML, CSS, which was all it needed. But it was mostly design based. And then, you know, a cup that lended itself to other projects. So basically I got lucky and it became like word of mouth thing because they knew no one. So all those sort of projects just sort of like honed my design skill set. But then it also honed more front end work So I basically I started going from the backbone route into Marionette and then into I stuck with Riot for a long time But basically a lot of front-end work. And at some point over like the next three or four years, I started having to work with or alongside backend engineers. So back into WordPress, back into custom PHP stacks. So a lot of CodeIgniter, a lot of beginning Laravel stuff. and so I just that gave me some of the beginnings of the full stack experience and then I became more full stacky on future clients same clients or new ones and basically lived with a foot in each world for a while well I guess three worlds because there was design in there too but yeah and then so that the php stuff eventually evolved into elixir and then I came full circle back into node.js world because I was thinking why elixir was kind of starting not kind of it was definitely still in its infancy a lot more people have heard about it now which is a good thing check it out if you haven't the so I started doing a lot more node.js just because serverless was popping up and just there are a lot more companies working with node.js at the time and it was just easier to market yourself as a full stack contractor when you know you can prove your javascript skills on both front end and back end. And so that's kind of where I've been. I've dabbled in other stuff along the way, but that's kind of the core synopsis of where things are at. So have you tried any of the other front end frameworks, like React, all of them? All of them, just because as a contractor, you don't really have a choice. You just have to be able to jump into whatever you're doing. It's not the common case that you're starting something from scratch. so it's just whatever they've got you've got to work with it try to improve it building features whatever it is so i've done everything except for anything after angular 2 right but like all the other i refuse to touch angular after 2 no like shots fired it's just i there's no like new utility format for me with it anymore and it's not all that common anymore either at least in the contract So you've been a contractor for all this long. Haven't you been tempted to be an employee? I was for the majority of the last decade but sometimes I would sign on for a long contract with a but for the last my longest was with the company for two years They were transitioning into an advertising company. And so that's where I basically stopped at the beginning of this year, just before COVID lockdown stuff. So good timing on that. But I was there for two years and doing all of their backend stuff, all the architecture, a lot of front end, but luckily people came in to do the front end work too. And so I think it's kind of weird because I don't think contracting is as common in the US as it is in the UK. I don't think it is. I like if I tell new friends or extended relatives I haven't met before, like I'm contracting, they get a little like, I think it's just a way to say unemployed, but really, yeah, it's definitely a different market. I mean, it's changed over here quite recently, I think, because of the whole tax crackdown and stuff like that. But contracting used to be where people would aim for. And it's kind of weird when sean says like wouldn't you attempt to be an employee it almost never crossed my mind when i was contracting and then one day i did it and i spent all the time regretting it and thinking when can i go back contracting again you know it's really different i was definitely feeling that towards like the halfway mark of of my lat of my that salary position i was talking about just the reason i don't know if if this is how like i naturally am or if contracting just like promoted it but i tend to have a project add right like hence all the modules but so if if i'm working on a contracted thing there's a there's a fixed start and end date for the most part so like once that end date is gone has come and gone i can move on to something else either a new client entirely or just some other new project and like that works but if i'm staring at the same stuff for too long i tend to my eyes tend to glaze over and yeah that's fair enough my impression of how it works in the uk is that like that's actually how you get the better paying jobs is you contract because there's some sort of rule where you have to if you go above a certain amount then then that's there's some tax issue is that i assume i assume that's what entity is referring to yeah there's loads of weird rules they've changed it all recently like when i stopped contracting which is like four or five years ago now they changed all the tax rules around it but it used to be that you're a company so you only paid corporation tax there were there were a bunch of tax breaks, but also you'd usually get paid maybe three times as much as a permanent role in the equivalent. So anyone with any seniority would go into contracting because it made sense at the time. But I think a lot of people abused the tax thing and tried to pay basically these

 zero tax. They got into a lot of trouble. The government cracked down on it because it's kind of an easy, easy win for them. So it's in terms of payment wise, it's become a lot less attractive and they've removed a lot of the protection she has as a contractor because when I was contracting, for example, I was basically an employee anyway. I was treated like an employee by the company. I didn't have to get all the shit work. I had the good work and stuff like that. It wasn't anything like a kind of you come in because you can tackle these problems and we don't care about you or anything like that so it's very it's a very different market in the uk or what it was than it is in other countries let's say in the us it's like freelancing or consulting as well these are different terms that people use yeah yeah contracting usually means you have a limited company and you treat yourself as a company you go in they don't tell you when to come in they just say this is what you want we want you to do do it kind of thing and you act as if you're a company kind of thing sounds about right all right should we get into some some on-topic stuff stuff yeah so you you did a talk at svelte summit about uh cloud side workers right server-side rendering yeah what was that about so i mean what where do you want me to start i guess should i give like a primer on workers or just uh just a summary of the talk right okay so So basically, I spent probably like 20 minutes out of my 30 minutes kind of explaining what workers are in the front from a front end developer's point of view. Right. Like there's service workers, which like some people are happy about, some are mad about web workers, worklets, which didn't matter. But basically, I gave this little like timeline of what workers are and how we may already be familiar with them. And then how Cloudflare workers are kind of the same thing, but in a server. The same thing as a service worker, but in one of their servers. And then the big reveal sort of thing was just that Cloudflare servers are everywhere. And so that means that your code will run everywhere. And because it's the way Cloudflare workers themselves are architected, they're basically always on all the time. But you're not paying for that, which is what you would get with a traditional global architecture like one that I set up at my last company, which you pay for 24-7. So hugely, way cheaper. And then I went through a couple of demos to show you like how you can just get started with Svelte server rendered within a worker And I deployed two demos of that uh one where it was like mostly mostly manual so it kind of showed you like what that repo is still alive so it shows you all the manual configurations and how you would go through it step by step and then like the last 30 seconds of the talk i revealed this new tool called freshie which is kind of all those configurations and build steps done for you so that with freshie you can target you can build your app as if as if you would with a a sapper or an xjs and then build it in a way so that's ready for cloudflare workers or for node.js whatever you want which obviously has overlap with the svelte kit project but the same sort of thing so it was just the this summary is turning into as long as the talk but the whole thing versus this is what workers are this is how you can exploit them to your benefit as a svelte developer cool so speaking of svelte kit and cloudflare I'm a huge CloudSAR worker fan myself. So I just got to ask it. Are you working on an adapter for? There is one being worked on. I personally haven't worked on it yet just because SvelteKit itself is still kind of, it's like interface design is a little bit in flux still. So some of the way the current adapters are, which are all node focused, There's a lot of assumptions within spelt kit itself that like we have a node backend, but that's not true with the worker. So half Nelson, I think, is the one who's done the initial adapter for it. And he's sort of relaying his findings with what needs to change within the current spelt kit to accommodate this. Freshly solved it just by basically duplicating the same routing logic, whatever, in different ways for each adapter, which is duplication. duplication but like each of those things only exist once per package so it's not too bad i think em what yeah what we found is that so i've written these these two adapters to salt kit and rich has written one and we've rewritten them all at least three times but what we found every time we've written them is it becomes smaller and more concise but they've all boiled down to essentially the same bit of code because everything runs on aws lambda underneath whereas the cloud flow workers because like Luke says, it's a completely different approach. It doesn't have nodes. It doesn't have all libraries you need. It's very much, I'm glad I didn't attack it myself actually, because I would be so lost I think it made us think about what the scope of an adapter is and what it should do as well Because originally we had this view that an adapter might deploy the code as well But what that comes out of us is we have 100 different adapters for every single possible deployment platform when fundamentally they all do the same thing So, yeah, it's very in flux. And yeah, like Luke says, it is being worked on. It's just one of those game changing ones. I think this choice of being node based is interesting. I do see that more design decisions on projects are like, should we assume Node because of environments like Deno, Cloudflare workers? Like these are all just, I guess, isolate space. I don't, I don't, I like the technical knowledge to go any further, but it seems like there's, there's a slow movement in JS to diversify away against from Node. I don't know if you, you guys see this as well. so basically like node i guess cloud for yeah yeah maybe like not assuming node apis yeah yeah that feels like a good thing though it's weird because people always describe javascript as a bad language um i think es6 has kind of allayed a lot of those concerns so maybe it's now that people feel the language is so good that we just need to be able to run that same language across multiple platforms, a bit like the JVM does for Java and Groovy and Clojure and every other Scala. I've forgotten even how many languages there are on the JVM, but all of them. Maybe that's where we're going with JavaScript. I don't know. It's where we're going with ES6, perhaps. I don't know. I think the only real limitation is when you get into things like file system APIs. And I don't even know if Dino has a... I know it has a file system API, but I don't know if it has one that will magically work in the browser. right? Like maybe that's where they draw the hard line too. But I think until you solve that or things like that, there will always be some sort of division. But yeah, I mean, I agree that like JavaScript should be able to just run everywhere because that's sort of the whole like tagline, right? Like JavaScript, it just runs unless you need compilers and whatever else. But I think it's always been a missing puzzle piece for me. It's a puzzle piece that people like, probably like you and like rich actually have that you build something that concise but so generic that it can work from a multitude of scenarios and this is the same now because we saying that svelte kit can run on a multiple different backends or hosting platforms we have to find the right abstraction level that we can take a spelt kit app and pump it into this and come out with something to run that platform and it's something i've never i mean i've never really had the opportunity to do before but also never really figured that i had a plan for doing that how do you build a framework because i don't know how the world's going to use it kind of thing and it's something i think some people have and some people just don't and i'm definitely one of those at once who doesn't right so yesterday i saw you uh posted a new library another one or i don't know what you would call it maybe not a library but a preprocessor i guess yeah that one's more of like a it's like a proof of concept sort of thing the so for everyone listening it it's felt preprocess es build and there's es build is this magical golang driven bundler which also happens to transpile javascript and pipe script that like blazingly fast speeds. So I've seen some ESBuilds felt like combinations already in the community, but a lot of them just don't bother dealing with TypeScript within the script tags. And so you'll have ESBuild there, but then these things are just passing the TypeScript through regular TypeScript, which is slower than ESBuild. So I was like, well, you just have ESBuild do both. Have it do both, and what's the problem? So I found out that there are problems and I'm working to fix them. But the whole project itself is sort of meant to be a proof of concept or like a guinea pig because it should live within Svelte preprocess itself. So this is kind of a way to just like test, test in the real world and like get some some mileage on it before bringing that risk into Svelte preprocess directly. And the reason that's possible is because I think as of the most recent major version, Svelte preprocess doesn't do type checking anymore. So ESBuild doesn't do type checking. So now their goals sort of align. Gotcha. Yeah. So, I mean, that kind of brings me to a question that I guess I always wondered. But Svelte preprocess used to be a third party sort of extension to Svelte. Svelte and I think it's been brought in to Svelte, like the Svelte org as part of the TypeScript support movement. Is that something that's basically formally managed by the core team now? Is that how it works? Right. The people who are already working on Svelte pre-process before the migration are still the ones working on it.

 also maintainers. So they're just working on the official org project now, but it's the same project that's relocated. And you're thinking that the futures felt pre-processed might be ES build? For the TypeScript integration. So the way that works is basically it's set up with a bunch of transformers ready to go. So, so long as you have the correct flags within your component markup directly. So for TypeScript, that might mean lang equals TS, lang equals TypeScript, you know, source equals you know there's a bunch of triggers but it will then only successfully do something if you have the typescript peer dependency installed so it doesn't bring everything with you because it does a dozen or more things ocss sas stylus pug a bunch of stuff so it's just it's pre-configured to do what you want but you have to bring the engine to do those things this is um this is news to me i'm uh i'm learning a lot on this podcast admittedly i haven't used most of it like there i know there's a dozen or almost a dozen but it's a lot of pretty much every front-end tech you can think of is already pre-configured through svelte pre-process and a lot of things that i think wouldn't make sense again like pug not not to pick on it but i agree yeah it's just ready to go and you just have to install one thing and you're done it's a nice user experience developer experience yeah so it's kind of an interesting thing that you you're building it in in public sort of because i i think you guys always push for for like someone to do it in public first and then it can be brought in to to svelte i think i've heard that several times it's it's a good thing it's like the it's like the actions package that you uh started sean yeah um i haven't touched it recently but someday we'll get that merged i mean this is it people people ask people ask how to contribute a lot and i think that's a good way if you make a product that is that is good enough then there's no reason that couldn't become part of like the core organization it's uh it's a way to sort of get your contribution in really. Yeah. Yeah. Another example of this, and I hope it's fine to mention, but now I'm forgetting the name. Anyway in the maintainer chat there was Anthony maybe you remember details but there was like an error boundary component that was shared from a Svelte library and never would have thought to use to set up a component that way And I saw it was news to me it was awesome. And Rich saw it too. And I was also surprised and a bunch of us were surprised and impressed by it. So now it's not an ongoing conversation, but briefly in the moment we talked about like, should something like this be part of core Svelte? Because it was such like, its utility was obvious as soon as you saw it and there was enough documentation examples there that it's just it it's one of those things where like an rc would have been good but like seeing it actually like alive and working and proven is is just like okay you can't really argue with that yeah so this this is this is crown framework's um error boundary component so i think jayfin uh made it but Actually, half Nelson was the one who originally conceived the idea. But what it does is it kind of monkey patches a Svelte component so that you can define a perimeter around in your component hierarchy where errors will be caught and dealt with in line. And I think other frameworks kind of have this already, and we don't. So they made this component and published it because they are building like a Shopify kind of equivalent in Svelte. And it's something I've wanted for quite a long time, and there was like an issue about it. There's no formal RFC, like Luke says, but there's an issue about it. And it does work really well. The monkey patching is concerning because, obviously, if we decide to change the way components are built, it will break. So there's that kind of watch out. And I thought, well, this is probably pretty valuable. It works. It works well. And it's got a kind of a nice felt-fluent UI. Not UI, but kind of interface. So, yeah. And it actually is quite a surprise because, you know, maybe I spend a lot more time in the community, but people hadn't seen this. They hadn't been exposed to it. So those people that saw it were quite impressed with it. So I was happy about that. And it hopefully will be discussed at the next maintainers meet, if I can get it higher up enough to the list. The original authors of it are very interested in making it part of course, well, they're being a PR, but obviously they also have real jobs. So they're not going to promise anything before the end of the year or even maybe January. So we'll see how that goes. But yeah, it's definitely something that we like to have because it's super valuable to have to catch errors within a certain hierarchy and and deal with them there rather than your whole application exploding. Yeah Yeah So didn you add this add this to Bianc I think you were talking about I have Yeah Checkout now uses it So anything anything that in the most probably the most critical part of the application will now be caught and what we did actually we um we installed sentry so sentry for those who don know it catches errors and logs them and gives you a stack trace in a kind of isolated system so you can see when users are having front-end errors in your site that you can't otherwise see in your logs i talked to the guys at century about what's going on here uh you know why isn't there a a svelte integration kind of trolling them really because they had to react to ember and everything else and uh and they replied saying well because svelte doesn't support it basically i was like what so um so yeah i uh i then sort of started investigating pushed the issue a bit and uh hopefully there'll be um some more news soon with a bit of luck exciting so speaking of the of the maintainers meeting do you guys have that every every other week or so or is it every other month uh once a month once a month yeah typically towards the end of the month but with uh thanksgiving in the u.s and christmas both at the end of the month it's the end of the year this year it's getting a little dodgy i'm not sure if it's actually going to happen this month but we'll see i know the year will definitely end it's scheduled oh yeah yes can you guys talk about anything that's uh that might be coming up that might be interesting well i mean svelte kit i mean will undoubtedly be talked about and it will probably be the majority of the meeting right but yeah like anthony alluded to there's usually a list of things that like come up during the month that we want to talk about and then it's just a matter of accumulating thumbs up to to see like the order that they get talked in sometimes we will So in meetings past, we would end up talking about, we'd have a list of like seven or eight and like Sapper would be second or third on the list. And then we just end up talking about Sapper for almost the entire meeting. So whatever we didn't get to just becomes part of the next month's list. And I think that's sort of reason for SvelteKit being so important because the reason Sapper dominated was because it is a bit janky in terms of codebases. It's kind of evolved and it's not really a good place to maintain and stuff. so certainly it'll be nice to have that kind of off the list maybe he's felt like it'll take his place he knows but it's initially at the start of this maintainer's chat it was difficult to get past issues because they were big issues but i will say that we've definitely got through those big issues now and things are a lot more free i guess which is which is definitely a good sign and slots was another one that just had a lot of things around it people wanted the original design was more limited than people needed it to be and that got attacked pretty quickly in fact i mean it it telling how just attacked most of it but uh yeah that's what he does his machine yeah big props yeah i think that's one thing to highlight though is the big like the well to me at least the major value in SvelteKit is its flexibility. So like Sapper was great, especially in the beginning, because it did, if you had a use case that fit Sapper, like it worked really well, right? But as time went on, your needs may change, you may need to add things, you may need to do more complex things because your apps evolve. And it's that fitting tends to not evolve with it because it's, it was so, opinionated is a strong word, but it was so good at just what it did that it wasn't really possible to have it move beyond and so there have been really good community efforts for other solutions routify elder js um forgetting some but there are multiple out there and so spelt kit is sort of the sapper 2.0 where it's going to be really good at a bunch of different things so that you know you can your applications can evolve with the same tool over time and not hit some sort of ceiling and be like okay shoot now what do i use and more modular probably worth mentioning more modular because i think that's a big it's a big theme is modularity being able to sort of pull out things you don't want and put things in that you do want right yeah right so cloudflare workers i want to i want to talk more about cloudflare workers okay what's so great about them well they're they're just incredibly quick and they're practically free so i mean Most people, it's something like $5 and you get 10 million requests a month, right? And then it's 50 cents for every million beyond that. I mean, you just can't beat that, right? And they also just execute quicker. So if you have something like a Google Function or an AWS Lambda, they have to start up. And most of what those platforms are doing over the years is trying to make those startups smaller. but like workers launched with effectively zero startup. I think it's less than, shoot, don't quote me. It's either less than 10 milliseconds or like 50 microsecond startup. Those are the numbers that come to mind, but it's one of those. Why is that the case though? Again, don't quote me. It has to do with how they...

 how they store your upload. So they support multiple languages and all of them have some relation to WASM. So I think what they do is they compile it on upload to WASM or some isolate, whatever, so that it's basically already in this ready to go state. So that instead of like starting a node process or starting a whatever, it's just there and an ongoing, again, this is how I imagine it, an ongoing VA engine or something. It's just pulling in these different files to say, okay, you go, you go, your turn, your turn. And so there's no parsing time. There's no ready, set, go. It's just go. So essentially assembly language running on a processor, so something like it's not interpreted, which node and JavaScript obviously are. That's interesting. It's kind of backwards from where we came from. Yeah, and it happens on upload. And I thought when I first ran into that, I thought it was a bug. but basically it's understanding your code when you deploy it. So the reason I ran into this is I was working on a validation library, which I still haven't finished, but the core of it relied on a new function. You were programmatically creating a new function, and then the whole library was just creating this function body string so that it could be evaluated. But that's unsafe, right? And so Cloudflare Workers has this unsafe protection, So it disallows new function, disallows eval. And it was detecting that within 30 milliseconds of me uploading it. So the entire request on my side was 30 milliseconds. And it came back saying, hey, online, deeply nested line on like line 200, whatever. It's saying you're using new function. You can't do that. So it's doing some amount of parsing. And then I remembered, oh, it's doing isolates in the background. So it has to know what's going on. Okay. i think like all of these like serverless i don't know what to call them like services or i can't even imagine how complicated they they must be to to like make from scratch it's pretty pretty cool i imagine it's satisfying though yeah i mean once you once you've got that running with no with no cold start time and then it's been the biggest complaint of every serverless provider in the world cold start time then that pretty impressive I was talking to a friend of mine actually he was talking about Fastly doing a similar sort of thing And he said that there is a lot of complexity with Compilator Wasm because yeah you can rely on all those libraries being available that you normally have. You just can't bung everything in and ta-da. It's like writing isomorphic code on the client. You don't have things like process. You don't have file system, all that kind of stuff. So, yeah, I imagine it's deeply complicated, in fact. So the people who nail that are going to be the new AWS. Sorry, Sean, but it's true. I think Cloudflare are doing amazing things. Yeah. Yeah, well, I always thought that, so the missing part is state, right? And that's why I was pretty excited to see that they launched this new durable object thing, which is actually strongly consistent. At that point, I was just like, okay, Cloudflare, you own this. This is amazing. I want to buy your stuff. you know i i actually did buy cloud fire stock the other week they're totally dominating this this new cloud so it's uh i mean i think the the drawback is that you can't really what right you you can't really pull in any node library right new cloud for worker can you because of the awesome thing right well you can't pull everything but you can certainly pull a lot of things, right? Like it depends on how specific like the module was, right? Like most no libraries are so big that it's kind of impossible to know everything that's going on through all the dependency chain. But something like ClassX, right? Like my class names alternative thing, like that doesn't care what you're running on. It's just a function that returns the string. Yeah. So speaking of your libraries and stuff, So what motivates you usually to build these? They're quite small, right? They're very specific to certain problems. Yeah, it's usually like curiosity, sometimes anger, but it's usually a curiosity. So it's just to see what's going on under the hood. And so I say anger jokingly, but like if I'm using something and I'm realizing that everything else I have in my application is small or is running pretty smoothly, but using this one thing or waiting for this one thing to run doesn't feel quite right, then that's going to pique my interest to say, okay, what's going on there? Like why this is just an HTTP request Why is this thing like consuming hundreds of megabytes of memory or why is it failing half the time Why do I have to do this in order to send that So that kind of you can call it like some form of OCD I guess It just being particular and I feel like things aren exactly right And so that kind of just goes somewhere into the back of my mind and say, okay, this probably should or could be done better. And then I get to at some point and then I basically treat each one like a puzzle. So I add this extra constraint of making it either as small or as fast as possible, hopefully both, but that's usually not the case, and just see what I can do with it. But it does, well, unless it's like a necessary thing, like unless it's an application I'm actually working on and that bottleneck is currently present, some of these things can take months to refine and to figure out just because it is a puzzle and it is for fun. But not most, pretty much, well, it is most, but 90 something percent of the time, something doesn't get released until I know it actually works. And it has been used in production stuff, either my own or client stuff to say like, OK, like it did make it did satisfy the requirements I had for it. And then so I try to have this unspoken promise that like if I release it, it should work unless it's like a not dot zero dot whatever release or has like a work in progress mentioned somewhere on it. But yeah, I mean, I'll mention one of the you have many libraries and that's something I admire, but also am a bit terrified by. But so so I think it's worth mentioning that I think Polka and serve and sad, sad, sad. I'm not sad. What? Sad, like a musician. Sad, a don't know who that is. CLI framework that's as smooth as Sad's voice or something. That's the tagline. Should listen to it today. All right. Well, yeah, we'll mention it. Yeah, like these are all used in the Svelte ecosystem. Like I think serve is the default way Sapper was serving files. And that's pretty awesome. And it's pretty notable how fast it is. That was actually one of the first things that Jumi and Svelte felt. I was like, oh, okay. It's not just about the compiler. It's also about the kind of people that Adron's Svelte will also not tolerate the slowness that is in the rest of the JS ecosystem. so I think you are one of my prime examples of like yeah like if it's not good enough you'll rewrite it and you're not afraid to do so whereas I would it is definitely daunting so one thank you but two like an example of this was just this week Josh Duff is listening He and I have been talking about me Well, it was my fault, but I mentioned possibly having like another fetch, another like node fetch in node, but not node fetch just because node fetch, I know it's being reworked, but it's pretty big. And most of the time you don't care about like the rest of what node fetch is doing. So I said like, oh, I'll just make another one. But it's kind of a bitch, to be honest. And I'm sure that the Node Fetch team knows this and props to them. But my idea was just to set out a very simple fetch-compliant wrapper so that you can use fetch like you would in the browser, but in Node. But I was thinking, well, so many things are built on fetch and so many things are built on those properties of fetch that I don't use. but like the streams API, which everyone uses in the browser. And so, so many fetch based wrappers would break in my current version of fetch just because it doesn't implement streams. Well, this is where the bitchiness comes in because implementing like readable streams in a browser way, which node has always had streams, but not the browsers versions is this becoming this huge undertaking. And so, yeah, it can take a while. And I guess one thing to mention, because people ask me a lot, is why the reason I have so many of these like mode variants of my modules, like DQL has DQL, DQL Lite, Clona has three modes. A lot of my things have modes. And the reason is because like I go through so many iterations of modules that like I'm trying to figure out what I want. But I'm also thinking, well, not in this fetch case, like not everyone's going to care about like the streams API. So they can just pull in the version that they want so that if you want numbers now, if you want like the full node fetch, it will be like a kilobyte and a half or something, right? Which is mostly the streams stuff. But if you just want to fire off an HTTP request that uses a fetch looking API, like that's 400 bytes, right? And so it's just again, most people don't care, especially in a Node.js context. But if you're doing something like workers, right, or using building a Svelte kit that can do a can have movable backends, you know what your HTTP requests are going to look like. So you can just pull in a package that will satisfy all of those different backends, a browser version, a Node.js version and a workers.

 version if it's different and just pull that in and it's ready to go so that's that's kind of what motivates me with all these different modes but it does mean that things take longer to finalize because i'm thinking of all these different use cases for how they might fit so speaking of uh of cloner i i have to ask is the name meant to be yes the swedish word word yeah so it is i think it says on the top um it says like why clona and it says it means clone in swedish and then it also says why why the sheep logo and because it's dolly so dolly the sheep was a person right and so it's a sheep becoming a sheep yep i had probably like two more fun than i should have had making that logo but whatever i'll own it i do notice that you you spend time you spend time with the polish like the the logos the banners like these are yeah it's nice touches yeah sometimes not all the time but if if something comes to mind that seems like it could work and i go for it sometimes that affects the name choice too if i can help it are you squatting on any good names like sorry okay i'll tell you i'll tell you my my squatting so i have happier so it's it's and i also have prettier so those are if i ever want something i can do that no i don't i don't think i have any i have a name that i thought so i only try to use names if or reserve names if i like have a use for them um because i have so many i don't want to end up like in a situation where i get banned or whatever from npm for squatting on names i don't know it's just risk aversion, I guess. But one name I do have that I planned on using, but didn't was Y2K. And it's not really a good name, but I feel like it could do something with it. Yeah. I feel like in general for libraries and repositories on GitHub, like it's always nice to see good readme or like a good, like the first impression is more important than what most people would think. Yeah. It's nice. I think it should be something you want to read. Read me is one of those ironic names. Like I get this with clients all the time. You leave them this like really complex or not complex, thorough read me for them to read, to say like, this is what I did for you. Here's how to use it. And they don't read it. It like that that what the that what the file is called Read me Yeah All right Any any last few questions Well I wanted to especially highlight Uvu U which is a test runner that I think it been one of your more successful launches this year Yeah, I agree. Not like I pay super close attention, but it seems like it's worth talking about because most people think Jest is one of the most university-loved tools, according to the surveys, and you made a competitor. Yeah, maybe not in terms of like utility, but I definitely made a competitor that competes on the speed side, right? Like, so I'll have, the reason I made it is because I was working with a client that had a massive Jest suite and it ran, and it's not specific for them, but it took minutes to finish. And it was only something like 100 suites or something, which may have been a thousand or two assertions, but like 100 isn't that much at all. And then, so I spent a week in converting it into Uvu And it was, I mean, so if I'm talking minutes for Jess, it was like 8.9 something seconds with Ubu. It's just like Jess was doing so much like setup and prep work and stuff. And a lot of it admittedly was how they were doing hooks. But like because Jess was set up, the Jess files were set up in a way that made it not obvious that their hooks were sort of running more than they should have been. It kind of just didn't feel right. And even in its best case scenario, you're looking at like probably would have been 45 seconds versus the same eight seconds. So it's still slower at the end of the day. But as of today, you can do, for example, browser testing out of the box, which is a JS DOM backend anyway. But that's not something you can do with Uvu out of the box unless you set up a register hook or something. And I have examples of that in the repository. so you can definitely do it, but it's not going back to the modes conversation a second ago. Like I don't, I try not to put in things in by default, unless I think it's going to be used by default. So I don't think most cases are going to want JS DOM by default. So I don't include it, but it's easily, easily added if you do want it. Awesome. Cool. Well, all right. Thanks for all your open source. Yeah. Yeah. So do you guys have, do you guys have picks? Pix. We've again not informed the guests of Pix. We do every single podcast. He's heard the show before. I know what it is. Yeah. Yeah and it mostly just like whatever we enjoy as well right so yeah i mean yeah it could just be like the weather series yeah yeah i don actually have one is this is this the first episode without picks well it might be i didn't it doesn't have to be tech related right doesn't have to be tech okay i have a pick okay okay so it's a game called rummikube which is kind of an old game and some people may have never heard of it but basically it's like rummy with cards if you've ever played with it but it's with tiles and i like it as a developer because when you have found these games of three or four or whatever and it's either in straights of the sean habit oh so that looks like a family yeah it's a knockoff rummy rummy coop thing yeah yeah it's the same thing it's just you just need numbers yeah you just need numbers and you can play with cards if you don't happen to have a game it's basically two decks but with two jokers which are the wild cards and i love it as a developer because it's basically refactoring the whole time so like you play these games down sean's laughing because he knows but anything that's down on the board is open to be regrouped and rearranged so you have to keep track of all these these pieces and arrange new games or new valid games using those pieces and not having any invalid games before your time runs out. So it's, it's pretty fun. I think my parents have it. I think they must, I think they must do. They've got, I recommend stealing it. It's pretty fun. Yeah. So my family's version. My family's story is like, we played it at like a family gathering. One of our, one of my cousins brought it and then we loved it so much that we got it for ourselves. It was just within my family. And then my dad got so obsessed by it. He downloaded a mobile app to, to practice on his own and then he started being insanely good. So there is some skill to this. Yeah. I play every day i mean i played three rounds before the podcast this morning so by yourself like on the app all right so there's an official rummy cube app or whatever and you're supposedly playing you're supposedly playing other people around the world but i'm pretty sure they're all bots and you know but it's fun yeah all right any other picks i i actually have one now go for it anthony oh so i have a pick now because luke inspired me to think of the whole covered behind me of board games and or boarding card games so my pick is definitely Monopoly deal so if you like Monopoly if you can imagine it being playable about 15 minutes so yeah Monopoly deal it is 15 minutes long Monopoly no one can see on the camera anyway so i not sure i holding it up but i am um and it super super vicious so if you think you get angry monopoly you can get three times as angry in this in a quarter of the time or something like that it's crazy it's just really really nice like fast paced the same kind of concept but everything sort of compressed down a bit so that you things happen more rapidly and they happen more directly and it's just great fun so i recommend this game to anyone and does that just mean you get like more money more faster it means you get more money faster it means you often if you're me get cards thrown at your face by your wife um it genuinely is so you get her money faster oh yes i definitely do i mean she would contest that but of course you know that's part of the fun right there's a lot of stealing so i have at one point being playing with two other people and at one point in the game had enough built up my hand that i could take all of their stuff off the table so it's just me having everything and no one having anything else it's that kind of direct it takes if you play one round you will learn all the rules and that's all you need to know it's uh it's not a long a long learning game so 15 minutes and you're done basically right all right yeah my family plays that too so the two of you picked the top two games in my family so fully endorsed i have a game as well yeah actually for a rather game service yeah so uh i i tried uh google stadia last night and i was actually blown away by how well that service works right if you don't have a gaming computer so it's basically a cloud gaming service right which one did you play oh i i played like one of the free ones that comes with the service so I think it was Orcs Must Die 3. A lot of thought went into that name. Yeah. It's pretty cool, though, like the service. Like there's no latency or... Wow. Yeah, that's pretty cool. Okay. Okay, well, I had to pivot to a game pick because all of you picked games. So Jeremy Wagner actually pointed me to this one, but apparently this has been around for a while. Cookie Clicker. It's a browser-based game. Ortail.net.org cookie clicker. Just Google cookie clicker, you'll get it. It's a clicker game. So you just click, click, click. And then you set up factories and machines to help you get more cookies. And it's a really mindless game.

 but it's uh it's pretty it's pretty addictive i had to i just i had to close it down and stop playing because it was it was really that addictive but i did give me an idea that our next svelte society or a svelte summit activity because i think we we want to have trying to have a tradition of like when we have a conference we'll also have give people something to to code up and show off and and demonstrate and last time we we picked something too hard but i think the clicker game could be just good enough where you can get creative and bring in some art assets and do some animations. So I think that would be my pick. Cool. All right. I think that's it. So Luke, where can people get a hold of you? Twitter, website? Twitter, GitHub, Discord. LukeEad everywhere. But LukeEad05 on Twitter. That's it. All right. Cool. Thanks for joining us. Thank you, guys. And thank you all the listeners for sticking with us for an hour. and uh happy new year goodbye everyone happy new year yeah and merry christmas I guess probably the last one before 2021 yeah yeah definitely see you guys all next year bye bye see you soon bye bye