 Hey friends, what's up? I am super excited for today's video because after months of trying things out, I finally landed on an SVG animation library I want to use, and in this video, we're going to make that library from scratch. Not only that, but by the end of this video, we're going to make this awesome animation so you can make those Vox style videos. How beautiful is this, friends? But before we get started, don't forget to like and subscribe, and you can also support me by becoming a patron. All right, friends. So I want to share my thought process with you because I think that's more important than any code you're going to write. You're going to see the actual code is so easy, but that wasn't the hard part. The hard part was trying thousand things until every failed and I found one that I like. So as you can see, I did some crazy things. I made this declarative SVG timeline in Svelte. I might make a video on this. It's like interesting. So you can see basically here I'm using Motion 1 so I get this timeline and here we have a declarative timeline in Svelte, but this didn't work. And why it didn't work? because I want to be able to tween any value. For example, if you take the view box from the SVG element, you can't really animate this using CSS keyframes. And I want to be able to animate any value. And some animation libraries like GSEP can do that, which is great. But I want to have complete control. So basically, this was my research. And let me show you briefly the code, how this looks like. So here, we can define values that we want to animate. I named this signal because a store in Svelte is basically like a signal, but it's really not a signal. You can learn more about stores in my other video. But we just define values that change over time like Motion Canvas does it, right? And here is how we do it. So we can say await and now we can change anything. We can say this element, we can play a sound and then we can animate the values. We can play animations at the same time using this helper function. So again, here we're playing the sound and animating the values. And here we're also animating the text. And this all happens in order using procedural code. As you can see, here is the SVG. basically here we're just using these values which are just values that change over time right so this is how we get this animation all right friends so let me explain this animation lore to you basically motion canvas is this beautiful library written in typescript where you can write some procedural code and you can make videos so if you go to get started here in the example we can look how you can write these animations so let me just zoom in as you can see this might look like react but it just uses j so you don have to instantiate this circle using new or whatever and every value under the hood is a signal so these are just values that change over time And Motion Canvas also uses generators to play these animations in sequence. You can see here is yield, so this is going to run sequentially, and this is what inspired me to make Animotion. And you're probably thinking, okay, if Motion Canvas is so great, why did you make this? Well, basically, I wanted things to suit my needs, how I want to do animations, because compared to doing this example, I just want to define a slide, which I can control so it's easier to record. You can just go here to this example. So this is how you do it in AnyMotion. These are just slides, so you can write your own code examples or whatever, and you just write slides declaratively like this. And basically, you can use your arrow keys just to record, and this is really simple. So you can just full screen it, you can use OBS to record your presentation, and that's really simpler to me than having to record your audio and then synchronize it to what's happening on the screen, right? But of course, the missing piece is the animation, right? Because this is bring your own animation. You can use anything. You can use GSEP, Motion 1, and etc. It's just HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. So I was thinking for a long time, how can we make an animation library that complements AnyMotion but isn't opinionated? Because in AnyMotion, there is no concept of a timeline. You are the timeline. And after trying all of these things, I realized that Motion Canvas was right all along. And what do I mean by that? Well, let's go and look actually how it works. We can defer these generators, but here is what's actually going on under the hood that got me thinking. Motion Canvas, actually, let me just find the code. So here is how it works. So you can see, actually, it yields this tween, so it gives it a value, and then you can move this circle from negative 300 to 300 on the screen. And that got me thinking. In Svelte, we already can define values that change over time using Svelte stores. And we actually have a built-in Svelte store, Tween, and Spring. So in the next part, I'm going to show you how we can recreate this example in Svelte. All right, friends. So let's recreate this animation in Svelte. So I'm going to go to our project here. I'm starting from scratch. Let's create this script tag. I'm going to create a circle. I'm going to say const circle. And now I'm going to import Tween store. So this is a value over time that changes, right? and you can pass it a value like this or you can pass it an array or objects it can interpolate between those values no problem. So we can do something like this we can say CX and I going to give it the same value so now we need to update it might have seen the syntactic sugar like this is well components but this doesn work in regular javascript files and i also want access to the options this is the only way that we can set options we can use the actual methods on the svelte store let me just actually show you this if i console.log circle and i open my developer tools here you can see here we get an object which is the Swell Store it has a set subscribe and update method on it so now we can update the value of the circle I can say circle set what value do you want to update CX so we can say 300 and then we can also set a duration which should be 2 seconds so we can create an SVG and then we can also set a view box and people mistake this view box for the width and height of the SVG but actually think of it like a camera so you have this sheet of paper which is your svg and then you're saying okay this is my x and y zero zero so that's the top left corner of the svg and then you're like okay what part of it i want to look at so it can be 200 by 200 pixels so this isn't the actual width and height dimensions of the svg element itself you can define this yourself by saying style and now we can say with 100% so this is also going to preserve the aspect ratio by default of an SVG but here I have to specify minus 300 because they're using these unusual numbers I just want to replicate the example so I'm just really doing this and then I can just set okay look at 600 by 600 pixels so we can see the circle all right so now we're going to create circle another problem with motion canvas they're using canvas so they have to implement all of these things from scratch. I don't know about you, but I don't have 200 IQ. I prefer to use SVGs because we already have these shapes for drawing things and etc. We can animate. So I'm going to say CX and then we can just use a store by saying circle CX. Now we can specify CY which is going to be 0. We're going to specify the radius which is 40, but you can give it whatever you want. And then let's give it the same field. We can say pound E1, 3, 2, Alright, so let me just save this and let me look at it. Okay, so you can see here we recreated this example. We're not using CSS or anything because it's so limiting. This is what I was talking to you about. If you want to animate this view box, I think G-SAP can do it, but using regular CSS keyframes this is not possible And later we going to see how we can use the SVG view box to get that camera effect which looks really awesome But there another problem with the default tween store We can really tween between colors So for example, we can specify fill here and we can say that it's white. So we can say FFF and now we can just save this color. So now we can specify for the fill to use our store value. So we can say circle fill and actually this should be our value that we want to animate. So I can just paste it over here. And here we can define it. Fill. We're going to say FFF. But you're going to see this really can be animated. And let me see if even it has there. Okay, it cannot interpol a string. But technically the people who made Svelte are incredibly smart. So if we go to the Svelte Motion docs. They made it possible for you to pass any interpolation function. And you can use the one from D3. So this can basically tween anything under the sun. So you can see in their own docs. They show you this example. that you can use interpolate lab from D3 and you can pass it here to interpolate. Now you can interpolate any value that you can think of. So let me show you how that works. I just have this package installed so we can import interpolate. I'm not going to use interpolate lab. I'm going to use interpolate from D3 interpolate because I want D3 to be in charge of everything here. So I don't have to think about this, et cetera. I just know that I can tween any value. And how cool is this? So now let's move this configuration object from our animation here. We can specify a configuration object here. So you can keep the duration the same. So here is how you do it. So you can pass interpolate and you can pass interpolate from D3, but of course, this is JavaScript. You can just make it shorter like this. And also to make our animations more beautiful, we can use an easing. And the one I like the most by default is cubic in out. So we can also import this from Svelte Easing. let me just move this to the top alright so now if we save this let me just close the documentation and you can see it interpolates between those values how beautiful is this friends so now you can animate any value that you want but you know what's also awesome the Svelte Twin Store returns a promise so we can await the animation and we can do a sequence of animations so let me just show you how that works quickly so we can go here and we can import on mount and then we can pass it a callback like this. I'm going to move this animation here. Let's just make it async. So now let's make the service

 circle animate to 300 and then let's make it go back to minus 300. As you can see, this isn't going to work if you just do it like this and you specify it again because it's going to use the last one as they're going to run at the same time. So if I save this, you're going to see this is not going to work because it's animating in the same place, right? But we can await it because it's a promise. Like this. Await. Let me save it. And now we're going to see it's going to go to 300 and to negative 300. But there's another downside to using the set method. and as you can see we have to define this value again like why do we have to define this field when we already defined it if we don't do that we're going to run into problems because it's not going to update so you can see it's like oh field i don't have no field no idea what is it well basically instead of using set we can use the update method so let me just change this circle actually i'm going to remove this one let's update this set to update so now we get access to the previous value because we passed in a callback so we can get all the previous values and then we just need to spread the previous values and then we can just say okay just update these values we don't really care about anything else and this is a syntax error because we're just returning an object but we have to put it in parentheses to be valid otherwise you have to put it in an entire block and say return right so basically that's how we can do this and now if we copy this over again now we can only update the value that we're interested in alright so I'm going to save this and let's see if everything works just refresh or did I put the same oh yeah have to negative 300 let's see how beautiful is this friends so being able to twin values and run animations in sequence is the foundation of every animation library all right friends this is great right but this is no way to live your life imagine if you had a slightly more complicated animation how tedious this would be to write well thankfully we can make a wrapper around this but first I'm going to create a wrap around this on mount so we define a function animate we can pass in a function callback in this case and then we can just use on mount and pass it the function instead of using on mount here we can just say animate you might be confused at first like everything works expected that's right but why are we doing this basically at the end we're just going to place this into a lib folder so when we decide to publish this library our user can just import animate they don't have to know about on mount and etc So this is just a nicer API Alright let get to the interesting part So let me show you how I want to use this library And of course inspired by this you can make this library whatever you want As before I want to await this thing that we define these values over time. But in this case, I don't want to do this set update. I want the library to take care of this for us. I want to do something like circle to inspire by animation libraries like gsep. Then I want to pass in an object. Then we can say CX 300 and then we can say again fill and we can also give it the same color but here's the twist not only do I want to say 2 I don't want to do something like this I don't want to have to define something here and then have to do it again I want to be able to chain these methods so I want to do something like this I want to say circle 2 and then when that is done I want to also say CX minus 300 it. Alright, so how can we do that? Well, first we're going to create a signal function. You can name this whatever you want. As I said, stores in Svelte are similar to signals, but they're not actually signals. So we can go here and we can specify function signal, which is going to accept the values, the same values that we pass to our store here. And then we're also going to instantiate these options by default. So you don't have to do this. So now we're going to leave it to this. And now we're going to say options here. So let's give it some default options. We can say duration is going to be one second. We can also say easing cubic in out. And then we can also say interpolate. And that's basically it. So let's give it a function body. So now we really don't need any of these things here because we're going to create this signal instead. So if we go here, we can say const circle. Now we can say signal instead. And now we can pass it our parameter. We can say minus 300. And we can give it a white field by default. so you can see how much simpler this already is so let's continue so how can we create a custom store in svelte and that is really simple the only thing we have to do is return the subscribe method how do we get the subscribe method well if we say const store and if we say win we can pass it again the values and options so again if you look at this store it has subscribe update and set on it right? So you can do something like this. You can say return, you can say subscribe store.subscribe. But why do we do this when we have destruction? So we can go here and we can say subscribe update That basically it So now we can remove this Perfect So now let create our chaining method So we can say function2 Again, you can also do this as a class, but then depends how you want to implement this. You can create it using a function and then expose that to the user so they don't even know they're using a class, right? That's how you can sneak in those classes, right? So we can say 2. Again, we have values and then we can also pass it options to overwritings. So remember how we use that update method Well, now we have this update method directly. We can say update previous. And now we can also return, spread the previous value, and spread the new values. That's it. All right, so how do we reference this element itself, right? Because we can just use two ones, and then it won't do anything, right? Well, basically, we need to return a reference to itself. And we can do that easily by saying return this. Same as when using classes. Because it's JavaScript, everything is an object. this keyword is going to reference to the signal function and also don't forget to return the to function at the end but you're going to see this isn't going to work as you expect so if I go here and comment this one out the first animation is going to run because there is really no problem with that and I also made a mistake here it's not value but values so let me just save this and you're going to see this should work right but we have no fill and etc let me see what it is I think I put in an extra E here okay so this works as expected If you see, we can't really chain this. If we go here, nothing happens. Even if we refresh it, let's check our console for errors. Really nothing happens. Well, basically we're returning a promise. So we need to somehow figure out how to chain promises. And to make things worse, I really don't want to execute this animation immediately. I want some animation queue or sequence to push this animation into. And then when we push all of the animations, then I want to play them. All right, so the problem becomes how do we chain promises, right? and thankfully this is really simple to do so you can go to this beautiful side JavaScript info you can read about chainable promises you can make an object thenable yeah here it is so basically they're using a class as an example but any object including a function if you return a function then this becomes almost like a promise but not really basically when it sees it it's going to treat it as a promise using the await keyword we're going to turn it into a promise and then when we add all of our animations to the queue is going to run then. So instead of confusing you more with my explanation let me just show you and everything is going to be clear to you First we need to create tasks So this is going to be our queue So I can go here and I can say let tasks and then instead of doing our animations immediately how do we defer the execution of something? Well we can just pass it into a function. So inside of here let me just go say tasks. We can say push. So now we can give it a function and let's just move this entire update function inside and i just realized i also can pass it option so we can go here and pass it options like this so now when the user wants to override the delay duration or whatever for the specific animation they can easily do that all right so now let's make this function thenable and we can make this really simply by saying function then and then we also get this resolve passed in so if you're familiar this is the same as new promise and then you get resolve reject and basically i think they call it the executor i don't know it has some weird name but basically this is the same thing that gets passed when this becomes a thenable so that's what you get and let's also make this async cool so you can name this whatever you want res resolve so we can loop over each task and execute it so we can do this like saying for we can say cons task of task and now what do we do we just await every task that's how simple that is and then when all the tasks are done executing we can say that it's resolved so we can say resolve and that's basically it and also don't forget to return subscribe to and then and now when you go back here everything should work so let me just save this and now you can see everything works as expected so let me just close this, refresh, and we can see we created a denable, and now we can chain promises. All right, but we actually have a bug in our code. So for example, let's say that you do some animation, you do something else, and then after a while, we want to reuse the same reference, and you're like, okay, this should run two times, right? But actually, this is going to run three times. So let me just save this, and let me just restart. So let's go. So this is going to be one, 2 and 3 so it animates 3 times and why is that? well basically we need to flush our queue or task right? and you might do something like this you might go here you're confused what's going on right? and then like console log maybe I can log tasks and then you open your developer tools and then you can see okay this looks weird first we had like 4 and now we have 4 again like what is going on even if you refresh okay so there's 2 and now they doubled? what is that?

 is going on right so basically this is how you can debug it and you're probably used to that but what i want to encourage you to do is just slap a debugger statement and this is so much easier than using console log because you're going to see your entire application state at a glance so you can slap a debugger and immediately this is going to break here let's just go to the debugger and again we can just play this so we can see the state of this when this debugger hit this so we can see what's going on with the task okay we have two of them so now when we play this and we trigger this again, you're going to see something weird is going to happen. When we hover again over the tasks, what is this? Four of them. And this is so much easier. You actually get to see how your application executes. So learn how to use the debugger because it's going to make your life so much easier. But okay, enough rambling from me. Let me just go here. I'm going to remove this debugger statement. After we resolve everything, we just need to clear the task queue. So you can say task equals to empty array. And let me just go over here. I'm going to bring things back case they were and now let's see we should only play two times one two and that should be it now our animations work as expected all right this is awesome but what if we want to play animations at the same time well basically let's just simulate this by going here to our circle i'm going to create text values change over time so i'm going to create text i'm going to say signal so this is going to animate the opacity and then let's just create the text node here so you can just say text and we can give it the text motion so let's just give it some attributes here we need to specify the x so this is going to be actually the circle x so again how beautiful is this system we can actually track the text on the circle now for the y we're also going to say hey you should follow the circle y so this is going to put it in the center of the circle and now we can animate the opacity so svgs have this attribute literally named opacity so we can say opacity now we can use the text value okay so we can say text opacity wonderful now we can set the font size so how can we increase and decrease the font size well we can base it on the radius of the circle again everything is coming full circle pun intended all right so now we can say circle r but this is going to be too big so let's multiply it by 0.4 so it's not as large and let me just save this and nothing is going on right now because we need to animate it right and also for the text I going to center it so this is a bit weird in sg we can say text anchor and this is what always confuses me it not center in the middle and you also make sure to spell it properly so text anchor and there is another option for centering text dominant baseline i know it's super weird but it's really not important let's just do this and save it and basically that's really everything you need for the text and of course you can make your life easier by turning this into a component but let's animate these values so how can we animate this at the same time right so right now we're animating this circle to go for 300 but maybe we also want to say await text 2 and now we can also pass it some values we can say opacity 1 and let's override the duration to be 2 seconds so let's see if that works so this should execute one after another alright, just refresh everything so we can see our text is lost here and let me see why that is, because it circles CX and CY awesome, so we can see, if I refresh here is our text and it takes some time to update, let me see why are we animating I see, we can just remove this I just want this to go in one direction like this, and then this should fade in so as you can see, our text is fading in nicely alright but what if we want to do this at the same time we have some other more complex animation well basically we can use promise.all which takes promises and returns a single promise promise.all and now we need to pass in an array of these promises remove await let's also remove await from this and now when I save this this should happen at the same time as you can see it does so now our circle animates and we get this motion text or this is kind of annoying to use i don't want our users to know about this right so we can actually make a helper function so if we go below our signal function we can just create function all we can spread all the animations that we pass in and then we can just return promise all animations and that should be it so now when we go here we don't even have to know about all this junk we can just import all from our library do this and now everything should work Let me just save everything, refresh. And that's it, now our text fades in and everything works as expected. And let's increase the radius of the circle so we can see how the text also updates and it going to be easier to see everything So now instead of 40 we can set it to 80 here And now we can see our giant circle So if you want the text to be larger let me just show you what it looks like by default if you remove it Oh and I just realized we didn even specify that Oh look at me how forgetful I am So we can go to the actual circle here, and let's just define it. So now we can set this to 40, or whatever. Let's just go to the R of the circle. Now we can say circle.r, and now this should be based on the size of the circle, right? So we can also animate the circle here. So we have CX. Let's also animate the radius. We're going to go from 40 to 80. And you can already start to see how beautiful this is. Look how awesome this is to use. Let me just save this. And look at this. This is awesome to me. You can just really see. And again, if you have issues with this circle, you can decrease the size. Here is how it looks out of control by default. So you can just use a value, multiply it or whatever. Some basic simple math. and we get something awesome. Alright friends, so there is one last feature I want and that is the ability to change sounds alongside animations. And why do I want that? But basically I think that sounds can truly add texture to your content and help you tell a story. If you've ever seen one of those beautiful Vox videos or videos by someone like Johnny Harris and this is really simple to implement. So we just go to our signal function here and I'm going to specify function, I'm going to name it SFX. Initially I named it play but I was concerned that people are going to confuse it that it means to start the animation. So we can just pass it a sound, and we can pass it to default options. So we can say volume, and let's reduce the volume in half by default, and that's basically it. And if you're wondering where I got these sounds, I just got them from the internet, so you can place the sound inside your static folder, inside of SFX, and that's basically it. So now you can play the sound from your root, you don't have to import the sound or do anything special. So we just have to do const audio. we can just say new audio and then we can pass it the sound and that's it and now we can also say audio volume is equal to volume and of course this system is naive it doesn't really take into account the duration of the animation so you can maybe make something more complicated maybe you can use an audio library maybe you can pass a function to the user itself so they get access to playing this sound so they can use any audio library they want the possibilities are endless so we just need to go here and you need to push this to the test so we're going to say push And that's basically it. So now we just need to say audio play But there is one problem Media files can play automatically on the internet because you need to interact with the site This is to prevent sites from being too obnoxious right So I going to show you that in a second but let's not forget to return a reference to itself so we can chain this, right? That's basically everything you need to do. So here we also return this function and let's also use this sound right now. So maybe circle, when it's going to go to the right, maybe I want to use a sound effect, which is a swoosh, so we can use a transition. I can just transition. We can just pass it a string here. But you know what would be even better? If we just made an object so we don't have to remember it. So I'm going to go here at the top. So I can say const sfx. And then I can say transition. Sound effects transition mp3. And I have another one which is tally. And that's it. Alright, so now we don't need to pass this ourselves. I can just go here. I can say sound effects transition. and you can hear it already works. So if you reverse the site, you won't be able to play this, right? Because the user didn't interact with the document first. And this error is confusing. So maybe we can make it nicer if we go here to our function. Let me see where it is. So this is also a promise. So we can say then. If this failed, actually not then. We can say catch for promises. And then we get the error. But I just want to put out a nicer error. So I'm going to say to play sounds interact with the page first and of course this isn't a problem when you're doing a video right because you're already going to be in the slide or whatever and if you want to use this on a regular side the user won't notice because this is just going to fail silently and your animation is going to play as usual so if we go here we can just refresh this you can see we get this error message so maybe console log let's turn it into console error because it's more noticeable and maybe we can play catch up let's see okay so i interacted with the page in time so it played a sound right but that's basically it all right friends that's basically it for a library so let's tidy things up before we create the last example so we're just going to move this into a separate file you can name this whatever you want let me just cut everything so let's see what do i have here yeah we can just go from here you can just go to the top you want signal animate let's just cut this we're going to go here to source and inside of lib we can just say motion ts and now make sure to export these functions so we can export animate we can export signal and we

 We can export all. We go here. Let's see if we can auto import add all missing imports. All right. So now we can get rid of these imports. Don't delete them though. We need to include them in our library here. Otherwise, it's not going to work. So we're just going to yoink them over. That's it. As you can already see or hear in the background, everything works as expected. So if I refresh, of course, the sound isn't going to play. But as you can see, everything works the same as before. So now we can publish this library or do whatever we want. alright friends but let's first complete this library and add the types quickly so for the function we can just say that this is a function that returns a promise or nothing in this case and for the signal basically since we don't know the value that's passed in we have to use a generic so we can name this t but I actually prefer to keep my name descriptive so I can name this tween values or whatever else you want to name it and then the values are going to carry this type so they're going to be tween values and for the options we can use the built in svelte type we can use twinned options so this is going to get imported for us here type twinned options and this also expects a generic so we can pass it our twin values just so we get the types awesome and here for a twin store we can also pass the generic so we can say okay this is this shape for a test this is a bit gnarlier to type we can just say array we can also pass in a generic so this is an array of what of functions and we can also say functions are promises that return nothing basically that's how we can type it so this is a bit more annoying what i don't like about how do you type this this keyword this well basically we have to do this which is kind of gross like you don't do this in regular javascript but it's whatever i don't even want to type it it's not important all right so for the values we want to pass it the queen values but typescript is going to complain at us and say hey you have to pass all these options well we can use the typescript utility to make every parameter optional so we can do it like this we can use the partial help and we can say tween values. That's basically it. And for the options, we can use tween options. We can pass it tween values, same as before. And we can say or undefined if we don't want to pass any options. And then we can also initialize this as an empty object. Save this. And sound effects is really simple. Again, we need to do this weird thing with this. We have to pass it any. Sound is a string. And that's basically it. And inside of here, this is complaining that we said this is a promise We can just say okay this is async And for this resolve option you can go deep into this and type it properly but I just going to say any because I not interested So for the animations, we can say, okay, this is an array, and we can also pass it a generic. We can say, hey, these are functions that return basically nothing. So that's basically it. Or we can say promise for it. And that's basically it for the types. And let's see if that's enough. as you can see we're already catching errors because of TypeScript it says hey CY doesn't exist and this is really true I didn't even notice that we didn't pass CY but yeah basically that's really awesome so now you have all this great completion when you're using the library so let's just see if you're using circle saying 2 so now for the auto completion you get all of the available options you get CX fill R and etc and that's basically the power of TypeScript alright but I'm going to remove this and let's get to the last example alright so we can close our library here and let me just delete everything so we don't need all of this so we can now use our library from scratch to recreate the example that I showed you so I'm going to define SVG values that change our time so I'm going to say signal and I'm going to give it a negative margin so we're going to be able to see the numbers from our grid and I'm going to say minus 2 it is going to be 24 the height is going to be 24 and also by the way I didn't mention it but maybe you don't want to always pass in an object in this signal so let me just go here to a library so maybe you can check here what type of value this is when it's pushed let me just find it where it is so here when you have 2 maybe you can check hey if the user just passed a single number then you can maybe just use the set method right so you can make it more flexible if you want but for right now I'm just going to keep it like this because I don't mind defining an object and then I can say circle I'm going to define a signal again going to be 2.5 radius is going to be 1.5 and then let's give it an aquamarine fill and say 0 and that's going to be it I also need to define a text signal so we're going to tween the count which again how beautiful is this we can tween any values including numbers which of course everything here is an error but you get it in our UI we can animate a counter right there also now let's give it an opacity so now we can use the animate function we can just paste it an async callback but of course as you already know this is just a wrapper so you can use on mount you can trigger this from an event or whatever else you want cool so now we can say await svg so now we can say sound effects so we can play a sound effect transition then we can say two so we can say zero and y is also going to be 0 the wish is going to be 10 and so now you can see how beautiful it is because we can actually animate the values of the stg that you usually wouldn't be able to animate this is going to create that cool camera effect and then we can just say all so we can animate the circle we can say circle play a sound effect we're going to say sound effect transition 2, so now we're going to set it to 10, y is going to be 10 also radius 3, and let's also change the fill color so that's going to change the color of our circle, and then let's specify the SVG transition also we can say SVG 2, x is going to be 5 and y is going to be 5, and the last thing we have to do is animate the text so we can say await text say 2 so let's animate the opacity to 1 and we can also change the duration to 0.3 seconds and now we can also play a sound effect when this is done so tally or the count sound and then we can animate it further we can animate the count to 10 000 and we can also give it a duration 0.6 seconds and this is the last part so this is how simple this is you can make an animation pretty quickly. So let me just create an SVG here and I'm also going to create some style. So for the SVG I'm going to say that width is going to be 600 pixel and the height is going to be 600 pixels. We're going to define a view box. So now we can just use our value. Simple as that. We can say .svg x. We can say store svgy and then let me just copy this over and we're going to change it so this is going to be the width, this is going to be the height so now let's add the circle this is going to be the circle CX CY is going to be circle CY or do you name it something else let me just see oh yeah I kept it simple I renamed this to X and Y okay we can do that thanks to TypeScript and then we can also say for the radius circle R again we get that great type completion for the fill we can do the same thing we can say circle fill so the last thing we have to do is add a text so we can go here we can just say text and then we can add our numbers so we can say text count, but here I have this useful utility for formatting numbers. So you can just say format number, and then we can just pass it here. And if you're curious what this does, it just uses the browser API. Let me just go here. Here are my utils. This just uses the Intel number format. So we can format the number to use a comma, and then we can also specify the fraction digits. Basically, that's it. All right, so the text is a bit different. We have to pass the X and Y. so we say x which is going to be the same as the circle center so we're just going to do the same for y it's always at center and then if you remember for the font size how everything comes back around in circles right we can just do this and then for the opacity we can pass it text opacity let's say text anchor middle dominant baseline middle and then let's give it a fail here. So we're just going to make it black. I actually copied the grid so we don't have to type this out because we would never be finished. But again, I can just go here to the top. I can just spend a second to tell you what I've done here. It's really nothing intimidating. I'm just using SVG lines and groups here so everything is neat and organized. So when you read the code or look at the example, you can understand what's going on. I'm just basically looping over how many squares there are. So I'm creating lines for each one and then I'm creating these main lines so the white lines, right? that's basically it and then these are just the grid numbers i'm just looping over these numbers and then i'm positioning it so basically that's really it you can check out the repl in the blog post as always but yeah let me just save this and let's see the moment of truth and how beautiful is this right so you can even break this animation down let's just see what's going on here if i comment this out let's see the first animation really, we're gonna do this. So you can see the first zoom in, and this is how you can gradually build up your animation. So now we're going to animate this, zooms into the grid right to that area, and then it's going to animate the circle going to the center, right? Zoom, zoom again to the center,

 Enter and now we can add our final text animation. How beautiful is this friends. Alright friends, that's it. If you like what you've seen, don't forget to like and subscribe and you can also support me by becoming a patron. Thank you for watching and catch you in the next one. Peace! We'll be right back.