 hey it's a new year it's a new svelte maybe not yet not svelte for yet but uh yeah hi welcome everyone it's another episode of svelte radio with the regular hosts me sean and anthony what have you guys been up to since last time uh just a lot of sleeping relaxing during the holidays and then trying to remember how to work in january i really identify with that i haven't been doing as much as i wanted to over over the the holidays mostly eating food yeah fair enough uh yeah probably the same um i've done fewer sleeping and i think yeah i mean i took a break i took a break from bionk like for for like how long was it like 10 days maybe over christmas which is the longest i've ever stopped working on bionk and it's good i did i didn't come back like full of energy and raring to go anything like that i thought i could do another 10 days but uh i definitely came back feeling like i'm glad i took this 10 days and i don't know what i would have done otherwise so so definitely like it's a good thing i'm strongly in favor of christmas right now is if you're a travel company is the holidays um isn't it more busy well no so travel company is a kind of very broad term i would yeah Yeah, I would say that we're more like an experiences company. And in the UK especially, that's quite seasonal because people don't like to go outdoors when it's cold because it's cold, I guess. So we're actually very active in summer and a lot less active in winter, which means that I get to stay in the house and have like pasty white skin all the time because I'm really busy in summer and can't leave the house. Nice. Cool. So any other status updates? I see you've got on here, Sean. Oh actually I don know if this matters at all Yeah so during the winter break or during the holiday break I really wanted to get more practical experience with SvelteKit So I made my own starter template called SvelteKit and people seemed to like it a lot Basically, I took one of the popular blog templates from Next.js from Lee Robinson and ported it to Svelte. and it had all the opinions that I would want, but also helped me to understand a few breaking changes in SvelteKit. And I think the main thing that I really struggled with was I am very used to generating all my pages upfront. That's the traditional static site generator mode. And now switching everything, I think now the new trend is that, you want your pages to be dynamically generated on request so that build times are lower. But the trade-off that comes with that is that you have to have your data available on request at all times. And sometimes, for example, if you're reading the local file system, it's no longer there when it's on request. And I struggled with that. I spent like three hours trying to debug this. So anyway, what I have so far is available on SwellKit, on SuxKit, and people can clone it for their own starters. I think we just need more starters for people. So it was a good experiment for me. Yeah, nice. Cool. Yeah, I suppose, you know, for the projects as well, the one little bit of computing I did over the holidays, because I was on a train between families going up and down the country, I bought some of these little NodeMCU things, which is basically like a little tiny chip on a board, and it cost about, I don't know, $2 or something. And I was trying to get SvelteKit hosted on one so I could build little, you know, home automation things. I got a static site running and posted it on Twitter, but people pointed out that it's basically just static hosting on a little machine, which is fair enough. You know, if you saw how hard it was to get to that stage, then you'd understand. But then I thought, well, that's cool. Why can't I run a proper Node environment? It's called a NodeMCU. Anyway, it turns out NodeMCU is a misanomer. It's nothing to do with Node. I mean, it definitely isn't, but it can run a JavaScript, like, environment, but it's so low powered that a lot of stuff you rely on especially for SvelteKit just isn't there I even struggle to get Polka running on it so wow I think that probably it's a bit low powered for that kind of stuff that you could get it running like a proper SvelteKit app but you have to write a very custom adapter with lots of shimming like we do for Cloudflare and stuff Because a lot of the core stuff you rely on isn there But it's fun. It's really fun to play with these. You install one bit of software on your machine and deploy to it. Is it just like a tiny version of something like a Raspberry Pi without all the bells and whistles and stuff? It's more like a tiny version of one of the chips on the Raspberry Pi. The reason I like this NodeMCU one particularly, it's called ESP8266 actually. But the reason I like it is because normally when you're trying to program a chip like this, you have to have another Arduino in between which does like a serial port conversion. This has actually got it built in. So once you plug this into USB, you can just write directly to it from your machine, which saves a load of like steps and wiring and stuff like that. So, you know, if you're trying to get started, this might be a nice way to skip that intermediate step of configuring things that write to other things and having to configure that in between. Yeah. It's always with the, like the configs and stuff. It's always the stuff that really stops you from actually doing stuff. Well, it's a lot harder when you've actually got no, the only output from this is a serial port. There's no video output at all or anything like that. So you've got on this board one single LED and you have to derive all sorts of stuff from one LED. how slow it flashes. It's like Morse code. But again, it's part of the challenge, right? It's $2, 2 quid. It's £1.60. It's very, very cheap. All right, cool. So I guess we can talk a bit about what's new in Svelte and SvelteKit. Yeah. Let's start with the Svelte Summit recap. So Svelte Summit isn't actually over yet. Surprise. There's one more event that's coming. But for now, you can actually watch all of the, it looks like it's 22 talks on the playlist. And it's got everything from testing in Svelte to WordPress in Svelte and Greenfield and Brownfield apps, PHP and Svelte. You've got all kinds of fun stuff. So you should definitely check that out. and there's also the stockholm meetup happened and the london meetup as well as well as like a small mini edition these these all have like the talks that are in the playlist so you can just watch the playlist to to catch up on the on the talks that were showed on those events yeah yeah that it yeah what is what the best way for people to find out about upcoming events so for now it's probably this this felt discord so there's an event thing on there that you can check out okay but in the near future it's good there's going to be a like an event list on the svelte society website and that's that's going to be more up to date so that will be announced as soon as it's available yeah pretty much yeah and then there's also the the svelte sirens website if you want to watch svelte sirens talks but we'll we'll go through that later oh i should also say that i guess me and anthony had uh met for the first time at Svelte Summit. We had a very nice dinner at a Thai place that Rich liked, but Rich wasn't there. And then we all met up the day after for Svelte Summit, and I thought it went really well on the New York City side. Yeah, absolutely. I couldn't remember whether we'd had a podcast since we met. Yeah, I can't remember either. I'm actually going to look. Because if we didn't, we have to talk about that, right? Yeah, probably, yeah. It feels like we didn't. Yeah, I don't think so. Because that's what I was saying about. Yeah, oh, wow. Yeah, exactly. It's been a while. So the last episode was actually November 12th. Wow. Yeah. So we were almost two months after last episode. So let's talk about Svelte Summit, I guess. Yeah. It just feels like it happened a long time ago. So, yeah, so I guess the two of you didn't really experience the event live the same way I did, since you guys had to, like, there was a documentary being recorded and you had to turn off the sound, like the audio and stuff all the time, right? How was the watch party? Yeah, I think it's interesting because you have a plan of going to this big conference and you know it's going to be quite long and you imagine how that will work. People sitting there for kind of four hours. You imagine sound setups, visual setups, stuff like that, running around organizing. I think it was fun because it was, you know, a lot of it was like meet and greet to start with. People that we'd been working with or talked to for a very long time and we'd never actually met in person. I think then the next part of that was...

 Once we got all the visual setup and stuff, actually, it's very hard to sit there and focus on something in a large space. So a lot of our watching was done kind of afterwards, you know, when it wasn't live. And a lot of what we're doing there with people was discussing ideas and talking and socializing, really. So it's a lot different to a conference, I guess, where you're not necessarily running it. So, yeah, it was definitely a different experience than I think you had watching it. I would say also, as always, and this happens again and again, the sound setup is never loud enough to drown out the excitement of people. Yeah, so Rich did, what would you call it, the State of Svelte? Yes. Something like that. Showing the download numbers and some others. I don't exactly remember what else he showed, but it was pretty fun to watch. Yeah, the two very much live talks that were recorded there and then as usual the technical difficulties showed up during sveld summit yeah uh my i think my reflection from from that is that we needed someone to be the bridge uh and it should not be me because i was trying to be mc plus av guy yeah it's like you know it's hard watching the the talk and making sure that we're available when you need us yeah well hopefully we'll take those learnings yeah for for the stockholm event yeah yeah so you know i guess so i guess i guess as you used to sponsorship money right is to hire an mc who isn't isn't actually interested in svelte at all or anything technical that they just manage sound and and visuals uh because that because they're not distracted right yeah yeah i think that'll make a huge difference for sure yeah yeah So the event was a lot of fun. A lot of people liked it. A lot of people watched it. The talks were great. Yeah, I guess that pretty much sums it up. We had some difficult technical issues with me forgetting to turn on my mic a couple of times. That was so bad. Yeah. So, I mean, you know, for me, what I really enjoyed seeing the most was after the event, people really coming to life And I think that the point of holding events You know you can have Svelte Society on Twitter and Discord but it always a low energy background always on thing but you need all these spikes in the community for people to realize like okay there are a lot of people interested and I can find my groups so yeah I really like seeing like London having having a meetup Stockholm having a meetup and then the Sirens really getting together because all the three leaders of the the sirens groups three or four i don't remember we'll have them on exactly yeah um they they were at svelte summit and it was it was just like a really nice thing so like now they're now they're really bonded because they've all met and talked to each other yeah well they've not all met but they've mostly met all right yeah working on the last bit yeah i was supposed to go to the london meetup but um covid you know oh rona yeah it's getting old now anyway the thing is that the london meet as well um because the place we held it at hadn't really been open since the first stelt meetup in terms of like the running conferences and stuff they'd taken down all the infrastructure and they put it up again in kind of a rush so the sound definitely wasn't there there was various audio and visual issues um so we're going to have a actually a meeting with them uh in the next few days just to to figure out like what would be our ideal setup there we have multiple venues to run it in and some of them are better than others in terms of like their setup um but we also like to support all these venues because obviously the one we ran it in last time was a bar and that bar obviously struggles every time there's a lockdown it really struggles um and it's a friend of mine's bar and i know how hard it is for them to keep running and it's a really nice bar so i do like to try and hold it there sometimes um so hopefully that'll mean that we have then a better number of free venues that are good to host things in and so yeah that that's the goal with that one because i think it's um yeah it was it was definitely problematic and i wasn't there at the start unfortunately to to talk to the right people and stuff so yeah well again you live you learn right yeah All right. So let's get into some Svelte stuff, some actual Svelte stuff. So what's actually new in Svelte? Anyone want to chime in? Well I guess the most poignant one maybe is this rich interview with Vassell about Rust and things like that So Vassell is a company that really doubled down on Rust apparently They kind of all in on Rust And obviously Svelte is written in JavaScript, as you might imagine. I haven't heard this interview. I've seen the after chat in a maintainer's channel. And I think that Rust is really an interesting one because obviously it's kind of where a lot of JavaScript tooling is going for a variety of reasons. and it solves a lot of problems that you find that TypeScript obviously attempts to solve and things as well, but it comes with a lot of caveats too. So one really obvious one being that no one actually knows Rust. And if you write something in Rust that was previously in JavaScript, you do kind of put a barrier for new contributors because you then are looking at a pool of basically Rust contributors because it's quite a different language. Yeah, I don't know. Has anyone got any other opinions on on rust and js tooling no i don't know no fair enough well i mean does so so i guess the the the reason to rewrite it in rust would be to speed it up is that the which is a weird one because it's not slow yeah compilation has never been a bottleneck for svelte um especially since you do it beforehand, right? Yeah, well, exactly. And I've never seen an application that takes ages to compile Svelte. I mean, it's usually like a few seconds of that. It might be milliseconds, who knows? And I think the other thing is, of course, you get a proficiency in a language when you use it enough. And one of the joys of JavaScript for me is that I'm using it on the back end and the front end. And if I contribute to Svelte, I'm using it for the compiler and tooling as well. If you then do something in Rust, you might learn Rust, you might be able to build a compiler in it, whatever, but will you be as proficient in Rust as you will in JavaScript? If not, how long will that take? How many mistakes will you make? How bad is it going to get to the point where you need to start from scratch and rewrite it because you've made some horrendous architectural decisions that were great in JavaScript but suck for Rust and stuff like that? I think it's a huge decision. If you're writing something from scratch with the view that it's a new product, Sure, maybe, but I think if you were writing something that already exists, it's a difficult one to choose. Yeah. I feel like it just like I not yet convinced Basically I think it the more important layer is the build tool layer And Svelte kind of lives atop of the build tool layer So as long as that build tool layer is fast, I don't really need Svelte to be even faster. Like we should try to, I guess, prototype this to really get some numbers on that. But yeah, like Anthony said, it's fast enough. Yeah, that's my hunch as well. But I have no experience at all with Rust, so I wouldn't know. I don't even know that it's fast enough. I think it's just fast. Like fast enough would say that, yeah, it's good enough, but it's actually fast. It's such a quick process. It doesn't need optimization. It's all about the framing. Yeah. Perhaps the other piece of news item that was discussed in this article on the new stack was that he's considering adopting more of a framer motion or React Motion mindset. Oh. Yeah. So he says over here, you know, he's been admiring Framework Motion and React because it does animated layouts. And he thinks that frameworks should treat that stuff as its domain. So you can do some really nice UI design. So I actually haven't played, I mean, I've looked at some of the demos of Framework Motion, but I haven't really needed it yet. So it'll be interesting to have it first party in Svelte, I guess. yeah yeah same here like the the transitions and animation stuff in svilf could probably use a bit of a of like a like an update i guess it's uh it'd be cool if there was it's already pretty good um but it can always get better that's what i guess what i'm saying cool all right yep I put in a link another link here for Rich and Amelia Wattenberger talking Svelte on JS Party. It's more of a general conversation so just for people who catch up on and who like podcasts this is another podcast where you can listen to more Svelte stuff. Yeah who doesn't like Svelte you know alright so then there's this Rising Stars thing yeah Yeah. So as far as I understand this, they only track like the increase in stars over 2021. And so apparently Svelte came in number three. I think actually it's a pretty interesting metric of like, you know, where people...

 people, like the relative growth. Like this is actually probably more reflective of the online conversation around adoption. So it's not like the base level of adoption. It's like the differences in adoption. And probably this ranking is interesting because React is first, but Vue and Svelte are not far behind. And we are well ahead of Angular, which is probably true. Yeah, at least it feels like that. I don't know how it actually is inside of huge enterprise companies. I guess they don't really care about liking stuff on GitHub. Maybe they do. I don't know. It's interesting to see where Solid is on this list as well because Solid is kind of bubbling under the surface for quite a long time. Yeah. And now it's kind of on lists, which is interesting. I think they had a re-release of some kind, right? Yeah, it got a rewrite. I think it was a little bit different than the original Solid, I suppose. But, I mean, the thing about Solid is it's kind of a bit of a bridge between React and people who like JSX, which is a lot of React people, and Svelte, because it kind of sits somewhere kind of in the middle, which is interesting. Yeah, I don't like JSX, though. no i hate it i i do absolutely hate it but you know it's it's one of those things that it has got quite a following so if you if you were to take svelte and stick jsx on it i think you'd end up with something a bit like solid i think ryan will kill me for saying that because it's obviously very nuanced but you know from my outside perspective having never really used solid that much that's kind of what it looks like yep yeah same that's that's what it what it looks like to me as well. All right. So next up, we have a recap of the Svelte language tools from none other than Doomdy Doom or Simon. He's the main guy on the language tools, right? Yeah, he didn't used to be that active on Twitter, I think. But I guess over 2021, he started being more public about his work. And I think it's really nice to feature the work that's been going on because people just kind of take it for granted, but the tooling is getting better And yeah it everything from the prettier to type checking to like generics Like there a lot of TypeScript stuff but I think some new people who are new to Svelte get the impression that Svelte is so heavily into TypeScript when actually, no, it's just sort of optional language tooling. Yeah. And he does a lot of work as well. He seems to be a bit of a machine. yeah I mean he's also like you know we see him working on language tools and stuff but actually he's really active in kind of everything in the maintenance channel for example he's you know always busy helping out with the various bits of bobs that come up with and stuff like that so beat beat one day I'll get it right yeah so yeah absolutely that the external is just a small subsection of all the stuff he does yeah cool this one's yours the next one's the big one, the really big one. I think most people like the Svelte REPL, right? It's a key feature of Svelte, almost. Yes. And you haven't been able to delete REPLs or search REPLs, but now you can. It's amazing. And if you haven't tried it out, you should try it out. And you should delete your old crappy REPLs that you've accidentally saved that have been lying around for years. Yeah. Yeah. So I forget the exact reasoning behind this, but I believe we've changed the underlying stack for the REPL as well as part of the migration to SvelteKit. Oh, what is it on? Well, that's about I don't know. I know that it was on something like CodeMirror maybe or something. The whole thing that underpins the REPL is quite heavy, but it's moved to something a little more lightweight, I think. there's been, I think one of the things that triggered this has been a lot of discussions around stack blitz because the REPL is great for Svelte on its own but obviously a lot of our focus now is on SvelteKit and SvelteKit being the thing that you build Svelte apps with. Even if you're just building a little component the view would be that you're building it in SvelteKit and then running a command which creates a library from it with a view to the old templates kind of moving out of the way and SvelteKit being the entry point. So that poses a problem because you can't run that stuff in the browser, at least currently. StackBlitz goes a little bit of the way towards that So you got web containers So everything even a node environment runs inside your browser is kind of like Docker in your browser which is amazing which means you can run a full stack app you can run svelte kit so the only hold up really with with stack blitz one thing i guess being that it is like a a vc funded kind of company and for to rely on a company is quite an investment of various things um you need to move from something that's open and built by ourselves as well but the other thing is i think it only works with chrome right now because the web container standard is kind of being generated in the Chrome world and by Chrome. So I think that there will be work to try to get SvelteKit running the browser somehow, whether StackBlitz or WebContainers becomes part of that, I don't know. But I think all of this stuff has triggered a point where we've gone, well, you know, the REPL's great, but is it a bit clunky now and does it need some love? Yeah, the REPL is pretty nice. I like it. There was actually a suggestion yesterday about writing a Vite plugin that makes it so you can import components from the REPL. Wow, that's interesting. Yeah, it kind of sounds... That'd be cool. Yeah, right? It reminds me a bit about the Dino way of doing things. You just insert a URL, right? That's how it works. Yeah, there's also a Skype app way of doing things, I suppose, as well. Skype app is dead. I think. No, no, Snowpack's dead. Skypack's not dead. Snowpack is dead, yes. Skypack is like the thing where you pull NPM modules from a cloud type thing, not a centralized repo. Something like that, I don't know. So anyway, the REPL's getting a bit of an overhaul. It has had a bit of an overhaul. It's getting more. But I mean, I've built a lot of my components in the REPL still. I definitely do use it every day as a thing, especially even, you know, people will crack open CodePen and stuff and start writing. But compared to the Svelte REPL, CodePen is slow for me. So I just use the REPL for everything. Yeah. I use the Svelte REPL to test HTML. I don't actually even need Svelte. I just like chuck it in there because it's so much faster than CodePen. But like, yeah, I mean, you know, for me, I'm most excited when we can add social features to Svelte repls. I think that we could effectively turn the Svelte repl page into the de facto component library for anything Svelte And imagine if we didn have to split it between Svelte Society and the Svelte repl page People can just discover what they need and pull it off of there Yeah So that my dream And especially with like a plugin that the less you just import it from. That one I'm actually, I don't care about so much because I just copy paste. Like it's not that big. Yeah, I suppose. Yeah. The great thing about Svelte, you can, you know, you can copy paste an entire single file component and it has everything that it needs. I think one thing that might hold that back slightly of course is the fact that the REPL doesn't use GitHub Gists anymore Gists I'm terrible at pronunciation today so you know we're paying for infrastructure for that which isn't the end of the world but it's we've got sponsorship for that reason but if you try and make it very social and work on every site then you're racking up quite a bill then yeah people will pay that yeah i think it's not that expensive yeah storage yeah i think they will should be workable cool all right uh well the next item is going to be quick because none of us have tried this but uh there's a there's a port of remix in sysfelt called svmix and people have are most entertained with the name yeah isn't and the website is nice as well like i thought remix was supposed to be language agnostic. I think it probably is. Probably not yet. They have hinted that they might be basically like, you know, it's a... So for those who don't know, Remix is kind of Michael Jackson and Ryan Florence's attempt at taking React Router and turning into a full stack framework and their focus is very much on rendering on demands and then also doing a lot, doing a few things that Next.js doesn't do for the React community for example, like nested layouts, which Scott Salinski has been very vocal about. It seems at the initial glance that Remix is very focused on React because all two of the founders, plus Ken C. Dodds, work there and they're very, very heavily React. But they've been dropping hints that they're going to be framework agnostics. So I think probably the first framework they're going to tackle is felt. Yeah, that'd be cool. They should have called it Reamtify. What? It's like Routify. Remix is like Routify, right? It's a router that is a framework, so therefore it should be called Reemtify. I might talk to Ken and see if he wants to change his name. No, no, no, do I.

 You're not allowed to name things ever again. Remtify? Remtify. Remtify run. Hang on. All right. So I can actually talk a bit about how this works. Yeah. So you know how in Svelkit you have to usually proxy your fetches? So you can't just stick everything in the load function because it'll be exposed to the client. So the way this works is they have a Vite plugin that basically takes a script tag and you write your back-end code in there and it just auto-generates the load function for you so you get it automatically set up in your routes, basically. And it generates the endpoint as well that you need for that. It's pretty cool. It's actually very, very nice. So you can just write... I guess it's just like in Remix. You can talk to your database and stuff like that, and it won't be exposed to the client. So a bit like Meteor then as well? Like, didn't Meteor do this? I'm sure it did. But didn't Meteor also have like a weird, well, it wasn't weird, I guess, but just more of a interactive way of handling data between server and client? Yeah, it didn't have like a RESTful kind of focus. It was something like, I don't know, WebSockets. I don't know how it worked. But I remember you writing server code in it. Yeah, I remember that. Essentially, it was like you had a local clone of your server inside of your client-side application. And then Meteor would handle the syncing between client and server. So it's pretty smart because you never need to write optimistic updates. It just does it on its own for the most part. and that's a really nice experience but it does add a bit to the JavaScript weight and I think people had problems with everything in the media stack being proprietary including the package manager so yeah alright well SWEMIX is something to check out at least, seems pretty cool I guess the next I moved this up because this is probably more sort of philosophically aligned with the other stuff that we've been talking about So Rich launched Svelte Cubed at Svelte Summit And I think people have been playing around with it I had to go learn 3 a little bit before I could really understand Svelte Cubed And basically Svelte Cubed is declarative 3.js. And people have been doing nice demos. I think this Expanse one I hadn't seen, but maybe you can talk about it, Kev. Yeah, so the Expanse is, if you haven't heard it, it's a TV adaptation of a couple of books. i haven't read them but i've watched the show i really like the show and uh this guy alex made a yeah i guess he used sveltecube and a 3d model of the rossinante that's the that's the ship like the the main character's ship in the show i guess you could say and he he's done he's added like a earth in there and mars and uh and yeah it's it's pretty cool actually so you should definitely check that out there's a whole thread on twitter yeah he made some notes as to like what does felt cubed really do for you over and above just normal 3.js so you know obviously it turns it declarative i think that's a very standard feature of 3.js uh framework i think react 3 Fiber also does the same thing. It builds in responsiveness. It does drop in orbit controls that just work and then on-demand or constant animation loop. So basically I think it's pretty funny. There's no animation loop in 3.js. You have to build it yourself. That's silly. You might as well just have one as part of the framework. For sure. Cool. That's a good demo. For sure. There's also So the newsletter is out, the monthly newsletter that Daniel writes. It's on the Svelte blog as usual. Yeah, we should have him on, actually. I don't think we've ever talked to him. But yeah, we do have a substack for people who don't know. But it's also on the Svelte blog. Yeah. Anything big here? I don't really... Like, there's just a bunch of feature updates. Yeah, pretty much. So I'm still... Speaking of feature updates... no i'll wait with this take it after they talk about the the newsletter i i don't think there's anything in particular uh i think oh yeah so the syntax guys scott and wes did a uh how to do things in svelte episode so that pretty interesting to people to listen to though i guess if they listening to this podcast they probably also listening to syntax So they already know this but for any of you Not necessarily. I actually had to trim my podcast list and syntax got cut. Oh, no. Oh, no. That's unfortunate. So you have too many podcasts you listen to? Too many podcasts. Too many podcasts. Yeah. But no, I listen every now and then whenever it's convenient. Because the big ones, you hear about the really popular episodes on Twitter anyway. So I don't need to tune into every single one. Yeah, that makes sense. Yeah, so I guess we could talk a bit about Svelte headless UI, because I know a lot of people like Tailwind. So this is a headless UI port, I guess, or implementation. I'm not sure exactly what you'd call it. Yeah, it's a port. Yeah. So, yeah. So basically lets you use headless UI in Svelte in, I suppose, a nice way. Like developer experience. Nice. For me, it's not just about the developer experience. It's about someone who knows what they're doing, taking care of the accessibility stuff for you. And not being too opinionated on styling. which is I think the right level of extraction. Like most people, they just want very commodified components like give me a button, give me a modal, whatever, and just handle the accessibility for me, but I control the content and how it looks. That's fine. That's a really good contract between end developer and the framework or library author. Yeah, I mean, it's probably very nice for teams that are developing design systems using Tailwind, I guess? They don't have to really care about the accessibility stuff. No, I'm very happy that this project exists. All right, cool. So, Anthony, do you have any secret items from the maintainers' meetings that you can share? I mean, they're definitely not secrets. Yeah, I was just looking through the list now. I would say that things that are of interest would be there's a number of discussions around style directives and svelte element which are certainly things that have had a lot of debate I think the other things that are quite interesting are the white space discussions So these have been going on for quite a long time What that Well so white space has always been a point of contention because how is it best handled? Where should it and should it not appear? So there's talk about white space in between elements, white space at the start end of logic blocks, and the m space and en space. I don't know what en space is, but essentially there's actually a discrepancy, I think, between SSR and CSR, which is server-side rendering and client-side rendering. And it's one of the reasons that Routify went with JS DOM to render SSR, because the white space is actually slightly different between those two rendering methods. And I think there's always been a view to fixing that. I don't know why it's not been done earlier, But now I think there's enough people are talking about it that we need to kind of fix it somehow. So it's a discussion around how to handle white space, where white space should appear. Because don't forget it's generated output. It's not really important unless it affects rendering. And in modern browsers, white space doesn't generally affect rendering. But I think it does have enough of an impact that needs to be sorted out. So there'll be a discussion around what to do with it, what issues are raised on it, what PRs could fix various bits. and also not trying to break everything in the process because if you're removing white space, it does affect rendering. That is a breaking change, obviously. I think there's discussion around newer technologies such as resize observers. We're in a position now in the browser landscape where we can start using these things. So it's a matter of moving towards using these rather than using kind of old updated techniques for compatibility. What else is there? Makes sense. Svelte config definition. So again, it's never been a formal thing. we absorbed the best bits of what we saw in the community anyway. I think it's always been a view to formalize it so that compatibility gets better between different frameworks and also people who are building a new thing that uses config know where to put their customer stuff. There's also a discussion of some new team members which obviously I won't mention who but some more people have caught the attention of us and we'll be asked if they want to join the core or become ambassadors and stuff like that. It's fun. That's nice. Cool. There's a bunch of stuff that's you know it's nice because now we have this uh we have rich full time on this stuff and we're not completely waiting for contention of people having jobs where they've got spare time you know we we're actually able to kind of progress

 for these things a bit faster than they used to, which is quite nice. Yeah, so that's actually something I've noticed. Like the amount of work that's been done since Rich started working full-time at Vercel. It's definitely increased a lot. Like you can see it in the repos as well, in the number of commits, the number of... I mean, I think it's given a lot of confidence to people, so we're getting more contributions. But I think also there was never a problem with Rich's output per se because he's a machine, right? he can spend a little bit of time doing a lot but i think what happened of course is because generally decisions end up at rich because it kind of is his thing right and it's the world to say the world right now you've got covid you've got all these crazy things going on and you know he's working in news those two things are going to absorb all your time and really reduce the amount of time you've got to to work on on stuff like felt so yeah it definitely removes a kind of i'd say a bottleneck that we have um so it definitely helps with that yeah yeah from from the stuff that you mentioned i think the the things that i'm mostly looking forward to is the the style directive and the yeah so that's that's like the class colon thing but for styles i we should i like that and there's there are also prs for this already right that's there are yeah a lot of these things are what do you do about this prs are we happy with them you You know, do they need to be changed, et cetera, et cetera. Some things are still just issues, but usually when an issue gets to the point where we discuss it, there's already a PR by somebody. It might be somebody who's kind of run away with it without really discussion, and it might be the wrong way to do it, and we might have to go back to them and say, look, how about this instead? But sometimes it's just like, do we merge, do we not merge? End of. Actually, one thing that I should mention that's interesting is smaller and faster compiler output. But having just said that we're, you know, that I personally, at least, I'm really happy with the speed of the compiler. It's interesting someone's done that. This isn't like convert to Rust or anything. This is just improvements to existing compilers. So actually, this is issue 3898. 3898. So it might be worth a read for some people. 3898. Oh, Rich raised it. Interesting. About four years ago. Four years ago. Yeah. That's interesting. I was actually defending So Svelte was on Hacker News about two days ago and people were raising the point about how Svelte overhead and all that it starts to really pile up if you have a lot of components And then I had to go give them the research on, okay, but yeah, it takes a lot of components to get there, and you'll never get there because of code splitting. Name an application that does this. Something that is more Svelte in its output would be better as well. sure sure yeah i mean i i don't know what this actually involves but there's there's a few little metrics here i mean the size for me is is it's a few kilobytes difference right it's it's not like game changing but hey it's an optimization and why not it's gonna save a lot of trees you know hopefully yeah you know it builds up that that's very true yep all right uh i have a so i um well two two things from anthony's um uh monologue there so there is a svelte ambassadors group and that is something that's also new in the past uh one or two months and that's basically the svelte society people plus svelte uh maintainers coordinating more uh unofficially i don't i don't know if we have a goal or like a special i think It's just badge. I think we need a special handshake. Yeah, for sure. For sure. Something that forms like two S's or something for Svelte Society. Yeah, I don't know. I think it's just for like highlighting people that are in the community. Yeah. Well, also, I think, you know, we get more spammers. We get just all sorts of community issues that are going to be cropping up as Svelte grows. So I think it's a necessary thing. the second part is a fun parsing story white space so did you know when you do SQL right like select star from did you know the white space around star is optional I have no idea I didn't but it shouldn't be I guess it kind of makes sense so yeah basically like if you work in a parser and you're doing you're parsing letter by letter and then when you find something to tokenize then you consume it and you don't actually need white space and the white space is only there for readability. This is one thing I just learned. So I relate to white space discussions for compiler people. White space around a control character like a star perhaps, but obviously you'd need it around other stuff. Letters. Yeah. So is there a reason why you want to skip the white space No No. All right. Okay. Just a fun fact. Yeah. All right. Fair enough. Just to show off your knowledge. Yeah. Because the thread that I found it on, they were discussing like, okay, yeah, but it doesn't, And sometimes the keyword in SQL spans two words, like insert from, or I forget what the example was. So obviously, white space does matter there because it's two words. Anyway, it's a fun fact. All right. So I guess we can talk a bit about Svelte Society. You have two things up here, Sean. Oh, yeah. Just quick notes for people. If anyone listening is in Dublin, Svelte Dublin is up for adoption. the person who started it can no longer carry on with it. So get in touch with them. And we put the link in the show notes. And so Portugal, I think Porfiro is signing people up. They're trying to return to in-person meetings, in-person meetups. So I just want to give a highlight to these local communities because the magic of in-person is always helpful. Yeah. Yeah. Damn COVID. It does really throw wrenches in gears. It doesn't take. As you could say. yeah all right so other news in svelte society so the website is being rebuilt with the and there's going to be a lot of cool features on there yeah we're moving to cms based system so instead of having just the github stuff it's it's going to be a lot easier to handle like all the components and all of the starter templates and all of all of that stuff that's currently just sitting in like huge json files um so that's gonna be nice which uh which cms are you using so i haven't decided yet but i'm looking at a few different ones so super base is one that i'm looking at uh directus is another it seems pretty nice um yeah very impressive actually so i had a chat with ben from directors and they see very low profile but they've been doing this for something ridiculous like 10 years and they've built on a lot of functionality. Yeah, it does look really nice. I would actually categorize them as more of like a UI layer for Postgres than a CMS But they can be used as a CMS Yeah yeah I mean it it not so so the people that are going to handle the the cms are going to be technical anyway so it should be fine even if if something is a bit odd um but yeah yeah so we'll have a we'll we'll split it up into two parts we'll have the the community side and then we'll have the resources side pretty much um so that's that's going to be fun and i think people are going to like it yeah um and you know i think uh for those who don't know kev went full-time and he's sort of looking for support and i guess whatever plug plug your stuff but uh i think i think uh i think it's very encouraging for spell society that you know we can hopefully make this more of a well-maintained effort rather than a side project of everybody yeah yeah i guess i guess this should be a this should have been like a main topic thing probably i mean you know when you say spell society like that is that is it right you know you're managing the community and uh growing the central resources that hopefully other people can use um that's that's part of it you know that yeah yeah yeah that's that's pretty much it and then there's also sirens yeah yeah svelte sirens they're doing a lot of events britney i think has been she's she's done amazing job an amazing job here with the website and also like i think she's organized a lot of the the events and stuff um so they're they've already run a couple of uh small live streams on the svelte society youtube channel oh that's something to check out as well uh the svelte society youtube channel um uh anyway uh so they've done a couple of talks there, one on Routify and another one I don't exactly remember. Could have been a design system one. But you should check them out anyway. And there are a couple of upcoming ones. So one about using adapters in SvelteKit and another one about animating with Svelte. Overall, I'm really enjoying the Sirens initiative was always a bit... I wasn't sure how it would turn out, but you have good people running it. Plus, I think the Discord channel actually is coming more live as well. So I really enjoy seeing that happen. Yeah. Yeah, definitely something to check out if you're interested. Cool. All right. So I guess that's it for topics. Or do you guys have any... That's it for topics.

 that's it for topics all right so uh unpopular opinions let's hear it anthony oh yeah so i mean i love cryptocurrency right i love the blockchain i like proof of stake i don't believe in proof of work because i think that i like the environment more but i just want to say that nfts are crap and they need to die off as soon as possible uh i think that the current notion of nfts which is a stupid picture of monkeys no one cares it's not art it's not impressive no one care if you collect some or not it's just a matter of rubbish um but what i would say is uh the nft the concept of an nft has been used in the real world for quite a long time uh on the bitcoin blockchain uh by galleries and mayfair they've been actually putting uh art provenance of real artworks on the blockchain way before you know the whole notion of a an erc token which creates nfts existed so it is a real thing it has a real use case but what we call nfts now anything you look up that says nft is absolute horse crap and should be should be duly ignored uh and it's an unpopular opinion but i think that anyone's saying will uh will go with it yeah all right so uh yeah so did you actually know that nfts were a thing way way way way back like in in bitcoin so so So the current, what would you call the current Web3 NFT thing with the apes and all of that stuff? It's a theory of money, isn't it? Yeah, so this was already a thing on the Bitcoin blockchain. There was a thing called rare Pepe's, which was popular back in 2013, I think, where you could just have a rare Pepe wallet, and you could own Pepe images, basically. It's pretty dorky. Was that before or after CryptoKitties? It sounds equally as well as the current NFTs, to be honest. Sorry, CryptoKitties? Was that before or after CryptoKitties? Before. Before, for sure. Yeah, so this is way, way back. It might actually even have been before Ethereum was released. So, yeah, built on top of the, I think it was Counterparty. Anyway we should probably do an episode on cryptocurrencies We get into sharing Yeah I probably the least involved out of all of us But i also interested in learning more and since you have strong opinions we can do a whole episode on it yeah i have nothing against web3 i have nothing against nft like the technology the erc token that underpins it what i have problem with is pictures of monkeys or or like bears or any other rubbish that people are claiming is is somehow valuable because it's not what do you think about everybody putting their name.eth on their Twitter. It's a bit annoying, isn't it, really? Yeah, it's a little annoying. Yeah, I agree. But they're cool. Sure. They're not. I know, but that's what they're trying to message out to their followers. I'm going to put anthony.com. How about that? Even though I don't own it, I'm just going to put it on there. all right so uh i'll do my uh i'll do my unpopular opinion i i usually don't have one but this this one is is very important to me to me and uh yeah so it's actually that safari is the best browser it's better than chrome it's better than firefox and you know why because there's amazing color support in safari if you've ever been to the svelte summit website which i hope you guys have into and you try it on the Mac and you try the Safari browser and then you try it in Firefox, for example, or Chrome, you'll actually see a huge difference in the actual color that's used. What is this color space called? So the color space, so there's a function in CSS called color, which is only supported in Safari for now. And it allows you to use a wider color gamut so you can see more colors in the Safari browser yeah yeah so so the i think the svelte summit one uses dci p3 which is which is pretty much the what the macbooks and the iphone support at the moment yeah because because who cares if like grid doesn't render properly and flexbox doesn't render properly and you can't see elements and they collapse and overlap because the colors look good uh yeah really important stuff there You know, who's right there, though? Is the grid actually rendering correctly or is it incorrect? I mean there literally a standard that it could adhere to if it wants to Yeah It fancies it Well I skeptical Okay I write all my thoughts down I make sure they all render terribly in Safari and you can read through them. It just needs to display Apple. Apple.com has to look good. It's me. Yeah. And also the Chrome download page. As long as that works, that's what it needs Safari to do. Yeah, that's true. Does it remind you of any other browsers? Just take off chance. I actually, so I recently installed Linux on my workstation. And so I'm using Firefox there, which is a bummer. And it doesn't look like Safari, you know. So I themed it to look like Safari. Good. It's amazing. Yeah, I'll bet, yeah. You know you can actually run Safari on Linux, right? Yeah, but it's not the real Safari, right? It's the... Epiphany. Yeah, it's just a WebKit implementation. Yeah, but it's basically Safari. It's WebKit Edge. It's as close as your... It's closer than anything else, I think. I wonder if there's color support in that. Oh, gosh. Oh, I hope so. Oh. All right. Yeah, mine's a quick one. I wrote something about Turbo Repo, and that's another Vercel acquisition that came alongside with Rich Harris and a bunch of other people that have joined Vercel recently. And I've been converted to the monorepo religion. I think people have been talking about its benefits for years. The problem with monorepos is that the tooling hasn't been there, but I think the tooling is coming there and the investment is coming into the monorepos community. And I think that's going to make it grow because finally someone is actually making tooling that is accessible to everyone else. So yeah, I'm looking for opportunities to convert more stuff to monorepos. I'm starting out new projects with monorepos. And I think it makes sense. Like you want to build dependencies, you know, you want to co-locate dependencies and you want to build them alongside each other. So it even opens the question of like, you know, does Svelte have a monorepo someday or does Svelte already have a monorepo in some sense? A lot of people basically like start evolving them internally and then there's always the big refactor into a monorepo at some point. I think that will be this year. You say does Svelte have monorepo You mean like Svelte itself um Svelte itself Publishing multiple packages Yeah Svelte does right Like that that how you publish a bunch of plugins Oh yeah. Kit uses a PMPM. Yeah. But like, um, you know, Svelte Cube is a separate repo. Svelte Kit is a separate repo. Svelte Language Tools is a separate repo. Like what if we need to ship features across all of them or like, uh, you know, stuff like that. Yeah. Yeah. I think it's about logical grouping. I think that's probably the hardest part about these things, yeah. So, yeah, I think it's actually really... I don't know. Yeah, I was off Monorepas for a long time because the tooling wasn't there. Lerner didn't really do it for me at all. But PMPM has really changed it for me. I haven't tried Turbo, obviously, but it could be good in the future. PMPM and Chain Shets is kind of what I envisaged Monorepas to be before it existed. it's what I wanted before I even knew I wanted it I guess basically committing code to a bunch of repositories adding a metadata file using a CLI command and having a pull request opened that once you merge it does the rest of the workflow for you it updates, it tags, it pushes to npm etc that's amazing, I really really like it so if Turbo can do the same stuff then amazing I'm all in nice, I know close to nothing about monorepos i need to get into it or the pmcm.com well they're like one page long they are it's you can learn it pretty quick and it's it's really nice nice all right i guess we're on uh we're on picks yes oh should i go first yeah what is what is fat washing what is this yeah so it sounds disgusting right it sounds weird at least so fat washing so over over the holidays i've been so i've been heavily into drinking cocktails over the holidays. Fair enough. I haven't drunk a lot of them, but just, just like the idea of like mixing cocktails is one that appeals to me. Yeah. So I've been getting into this new thing called fat washing. Well, I guess it's not new, but it's new to me. And it basically involves, you get some kind of fat or oil or something, and then you mix it with a spirit. it. So for example, I did a browned butter combined with a rum. So you take maybe one fourth brown butter and the rest from, and then you shake it up and you let

 it sit for a couple of hours and then you uh so the problem there is you need to separate it right so you do it by you free you freeze it and so the fat just freezes and then once it's frozen you just take out the fat and you're left with this the spirit that has a taste of whatever oil you put in it so the rum that i made tastes of brown butter which is pretty cool um and i over the holidays i did a couple of weird ones so i i tried my hand at doing a uh a blue cheese um like gin which which was not it was not good don't that's interesting i've seen someone selling that so it's interesting you say that oh maybe i just failed then but yeah so so you could do it with all kinds of stuff i did a gin with olive oil a gin with avocado oil um there was some i'd someone had made like a like a carbonara gin so they took the like guanciale like the like the pig's cheek thing that you have in carbonara and like rendered the fat and put that into into a gin that's pretty weird anyway yep uh i'll go next then uh man i like fire washing i didn't know it was called that but yeah that's that's i like it too um so my pick is i bought my wife for Christmas an Oculus It was not a present that I expected to be buying and it not one that I thought I needed until I went to my friend house and spent four minutes playing with one and I was immediately sold So, yeah, the Oculus is mind-blowing. Literally, it's just so good. It's so good, in fact, that when she unwrapped it, she spent half an hour admiring the update screen whilst it installed updates, just literally watching a dialogue. uh you know it's that good because it's in 3d space it's in the you know in this virtual world that is cool and yeah we know we're playing around with it playing various games and experiences and you can do like roller coaster rides and it's just incredible it's just a really nice thing to use um is it is it worth getting one yes and it's worth getting one and also you know relative to what you might imagine it might cost they're quite cheap um it's a shame that now facebook have bought them um but you know c'est la vie it happens doesn't it but it's uh it's a great product i really like it yeah i think apparently they were one of the most popular gifts holiday gifts over last year because they went to the top of the app store like you can tell how well they're doing in sales because you have to download an app alongside it and yeah uh top the app store it's worth actually mentioning that it can be used without a computer that's one of the big interesting things about it. A lot of the previous ones you need to connect to something, or you need standalone cameras in a room to see where you are. This has the cameras built in and it has, you don't need a computer. You can use a computer you don need one And what that means is you got this very standalone headset you just put on and play very cool did i tell you about the time that i got very into vr uh in 2016 and i bought a hdc vive and i built my own pc and i rented a apartment with a separate room just for the vibe wow you really were into the full stack no because like i thought i was gonna i was thinking about making it my thing right um yeah and uh like it was cool especially playing like the early games rec room is really good but uh yeah the the just the sheer amount of equipment that you need and you get fatigued from wearing these things too much i don't think i'm a believer in that people are going to live in like the ready player one type of world uh for a long period of time no so uh we'll see i mean you know i think uh it would it would never bet against technology like you know in 50 years, this will be a lot smaller and a lot better in terms of the rendering quality. So take time. It's cool. Google Glass. Yeah. Okay. Well, mine will be a quick one just because it's not very unpopular. I got myself an iPhone 13 and it's the fastest phone I've ever had and no regrets. And I even went for the big one. Like I used to be scared of like very large form factors because like, you know, you can't reach the whole surface area. I've given up on that. Like, the phone is for reading. So you want as big of a screen as possible. As long as it can fit in your pocket it fine So iPhone 13 Pro Max has just done it for uh it just feels a lot faster than my previous uh iphone and this also marks the transition for me because i was experimenting with android for a bit and i realized that just the sheer amount of apps that are iphone only has forced me to be on iphone yeah and also it's got the world's worst browser like embedded and forced upon us as well. So it's actually good. You can have the true Kev experience and no way to opt out of it. Just need to focus on the right things, Anthony. The colors. It's the colors. Yeah, the colors are really good. Really vibrant. Don't you like it though when the colors really pop? No. Actually, I might put it back and white. Yeah, anyway, so my take on the experiment of Android and then going back to iPhone is that I think iOS has the best OS, but the worst browser, but not as good of a browser. Whereas Android has the best browser because it's really tightly integrated. Like I've never had such a smooth experience of passwords and history and all that going from desktop to mobile, but they don't have as good of an operating system. That's the trade-off really. Agreed. Yeah. On that note, I guess we're done. Cool. thank you all for listening and we'll we'll talk in the next one I guess bye bye