 Hey friends, today I wanted to share something exciting with you and that is that Svelte now natively supports TypeScript. And what do I mean by that? Didn't all of those headlines imply that Svelte abandoned TypeScript? So now it natively supports it? What? And of course, everyone knows this is not true. Svelte never abandoned TypeScript, it just uses JS docs for the types and then it generates the types. So what does this really mean? Well, this means that now that you can use TypeScript in your Svelte markup. So previously, this is something that wasn't possible before. if i look at this code example so something like this you would really run quickly into problems so here i'm using this input event listener and i'm saying etarget.value and now when you would hover it it says okay target is possibly null then you're like okay and now it says property value does not exist on types so you're like okay i'm like really tired let me just quickly cast this or whatever so you can say probably as html input value and then probably rubbing your hands together you're like okay my job here is done and then you save and you didn't even notice this and you refresh your site and then everything breaks you get an error and why is that well basically the swell compiler has no idea about this typescript syntax in your svelte markup right but now it does So let me just really quickly show you So in package if I open it you can see here I using the Svelte 5 version So this is specific to Svelte 5. If you're using the stable Svelte 4 version, then this doesn't work yet. But here is what you can do. So you can try out Svelte in different ways. You can say, for example, npm create Svelte, get latest. So this is going to give you the option to try the Svelte beta version out. Or if you just want to upgrade the package, you can say npm i svelte latest. Or actually it's svelte next. And I'm using pnpm here. So I'm going to say pnpm add svelte next. So we're going to see it's going to update to the latest version, which should be 0.9. And let me just run the development server again. And that should be it. So now if you look at the package JSON here, we're using this version 0.9. and we can even look at the releases here and we can see 0.9 release added the TypeScript support so here it is 0.9 all right beautiful so now when I go here and if everything still doesn't work you can always say reload actually restart language server so this should work your editor at least okay so now you can see everything works as expected so now when i go here we no longer get an error everything works as expected now you can use the types here so now for example if i say dot value and that's basically it all right so let's look at another example so here i have just this simple array with some items all active completed and i get this error here type string is not assignable to type filter and why it is because this array is inferred to be of type string inside right so if you hover over option we can see that this is of type string all right so now we would have to take this and you would have to put it inside your script tag right here maybe you can add a type but when you're doing something quick or etc something simple maybe you don't want to do this and now now we don't have to. So how can we turn this into a union string? Well, we can just say as const. And now we can see it might look confusing because we're using as here, and as is also a keyword in this each loop. So as you can see, this was for a long time complicated to implement because of these edge cases, but you can see now this works as expected. So now if we hover over option, we can see that this is inferred as a union all active completed So now there is really no problem when we reassign the option to the filter and everything works as expected and there are no errors So let look at this last example of a snippet And this is something new to Svelte 5. You can check out my previous video if you want to learn more about snippets, but basically snippets allow you to reuse your markup more easily in Svelte. And here we have this problem. So here I have this ally snippet and I'm passing this item, which is inferred as any, right? if I go here to my options here I have item selected and on select I'm saying that we can just pass a number and then everything works fine we can reassign selected to this item which is a number but Svelte has no idea about this right that this is a number so now we can go here and we can say okay this is a number cool so now everything works as expected all right so that's basically it friends if you like what you've seen don't forget to like and subscribe and you can support me by becoming a Patron. Thank you for watching and catch you in the next one. Peace!