 So now I'm recording and I'll just clap and let's get started. Cool. Hey, guys. Hey. How are you all doing? Good, good. Hey, good, good. We don't have to start a podcast anyway. That's the fundamental problem. Yeah. How do you actually? start a podcast that's that is a hard question i guess like this yeah i mean this is our first uh it's our first try at it i'm sure it's going to be awkward yeah but we'll find our groove for sure i maybe maybe we'll just like give like a small little like personal update and then and then we'll like launch into this list that we've prepared that sounds good uh that makes sense I just finished five hours of live streaming writing an essay. So I'm like very tired of talking on my phone. But at least it's talking to myself, which is different from talking to people. So that's good. Wow. What were you writing about? Is it the book? It's very meta. Yeah, it was the book. But then it was like writing about writing, like writing about why writing is actually an important part of an engineer's career. and it's not something that people really think about when they think about, hey, how do I, like, what do I need to succeed as an engineer? It's, you think about writing code, but actually writing words is also pretty important. Yeah, especially if you're a technical writer, I suppose. Yeah. But I think as a developer as well, it's probably really useful, documentation, things like that. I'll be interested to watch that, actually, because I think that writing is, it's a rare skill. not a lot of engineers actually have it everyone hates writing docs right so yeah well i mean the little bit of the pitch was like it's not just for if your job title is technical writer like if you're just an engineer like the more senior you get actually the more writing you do because yeah you have to design you have to do design docs um you have to do like peer reviews and pr sorry and um and like feedback you know for other people and communicate with external stakeholders as well. And then you also have to just pitch your projects and do retrospectives of when things go wrong It all right It hard to write for me at least What about you Kev I've been working on this Svelte Forms package for a bit these last few days. Yeah, yeah, it's amazing. Not really, not yet. So the idea is basically just to make forms an easy thing to do in Svelte. I mean, they're already easy, right? But just grabbing values and things like that, validation errors. Kind of a formic for Svelte, kind of. I think we'll link your talk. I found it here. Svelte School slash Svelte Forms. So I'll put that in the show notes. That's a good idea. Yeah, and I guess that's another thing, the Spelt School thing. My intention is to actually make video courses at some point. That's, I don't know. Are you going to put that inside Spelt School? Yeah, that's the idea. Okay. I think that is Spelt School. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, sure, sure. I guess it's a matter of whether Spelt School is like a thing. And then you use other sites to give you the technology behind that or whether you do it all yourself. Right. Yeah. I was thinking of doing it all myself, but I mean, that can just take so long. Yeah. We've kind of got a segue here into talking about Scrimber, right? Yeah. Yeah. Should we chat about Scrimber and what that looks like? Because we were discussing it briefly earlier anyway. Yeah. Yeah. Let's do that. so I think probably someone who's used it I think is you Kev right you've looked at it yeah so Scrimba is pretty much like a video course site I think it's done in a JavaScript framework called Imba so I guess it's some kind of player words there but it's a pretty short course I think the Svelte course that they released, um, just like an hour or so, I think, or a couple of hours at most Um but uh I think people should check it out for sure It a it a to Svelte Like most of the stuff most of the video stuff on Svelte it's pretty basic. There's not a much... The site itself, you were mentioning before that it has kind of like CodePen and Video together. Yeah. So that's quite a nice idea. It's a bit like the Svelte tutorial in that you're interactively using... Yeah, yeah. which is pretty cool. That's a good... I'm actually... So I'm actually playing it right now. Can you see my screen? Yeah. So these are all... This isn't a podcast, but it's difficult. These are all interactive elements. So this is an actual IDE, but he's got his mouse animating, and then he can highlight, he can talk. I've got it silenced right now. Yeah. See, that's the video. Yeah. And so this is like a video, but these are all live. So you can actually, while he's talking, you can just go look around. It is crazy. It is crazy. This is almost like, this is why I wouldn't previously have liked video calls, just because I found it very hard to focus on a video and try and code at the same time. And I'm always clicking pause. But if this is kind of built in, I'm guessing that it's a much more smooth process. Yeah. Yeah. It's very cool. Anyway, so yeah, people should check that out. Nice. For sure. And you mentioned it's written in Inver, which is interesting because I know that Inver was the only framework that was at one point giving Spelt a run for its money in terms of raw performance. Oh. So it's interesting that they also kind of, just as a side gig, nailed that. Yeah. Whether it still doesn't compete, I don't know. I think it's a very different kind of offering than Spelt itself. But yeah, I think for a point it was actually outstripping Svelte in terms of speed, which is saying something. Yeah, that's pretty cool. I know I looked at the syntax and stuff, and it's a bit more like... It's not as HTML-y as Svelte, if that makes sense. Which is good. I mean, I like HTML as Svelte, but yeah, it's definitely not the be-all-end, you know. Yeah. Cool, very nice. Cool, Anthony, what's your quick update? Quick update, let's see. I mean I was hardcore working on Beyond for like two years or something Now because of this COVID thing I been furloughed so it given me a bit more time to look around open source offerings um i doing a lot of work on as part of what i did at beyond i produced i produced a bunch of libraries um for our use and it's given me time to let sort of go through those and kind of polish them a bit um but also podcasting and um and and doing you know online online meetups and stuff a bit more community stuff uh yeah i thought have loads of free time but it's not really happened it's it's also uh hey what do you do i feel kind of the same as well i i also thought i i would have like loads of time but i feel like the opposite yeah strange i mean i still have staff so i have to mentor them i suppose but it's weird because there's rules around what you kind of can't do so it's a bit kind of awkward to know what you're supposed to do but yeah yeah yeah what do you mean you have staff like when you i have furloughed so so furloughed i'm still employed there but i don't i can't work on the actual product i can't work on it on the site um so what i have to do is is my other two developers mentor them help them because they're obviously still working but they're more junior um so i can do that kind of a directorial duty is kind of you advise them and stuff, just not in any kind of official capacity. And then the open source stuff is fine because it's community. It's an open source offering. So I can use the opportunity to polish those libraries up that were kind of rushed out. So yeah, it's just about what you can and can't do, really. Cool. Got it. All right. um yeah shall we um shall we get right into um the scheduled topics yes good idea all right so first off so how does everyone feel about yeah svelte society day it was good i think it was awesome yeah there's a few technical hitches but i thought it was really great it was the first online talk i've done already seen so yeah i was impressed Same for me. I guess. Yeah, like I never did online conferences before. And then, you know, then I did three in a row. Yeah, you're a better. I mean, like, you know, once you...

 get into this you realize there's some things that you can't do in person so you try to take advantage of that so like for me you know i was giving a talk but then you know so you pre-record the talk and then while the talk is being given you can actually see questions come out live and answer them live yeah uh and i think people really enjoy that because um you know during a talk you normally can't you know stop and answer questions right um and it really gives uh you know people that extra engagement, actually even more engaging than a regular talk. So that's pretty cool. And then I was also trying to give directors commentary, like, this is behind the scenes, this is what I was doing and all that, and making fun of myself. And it's pretty fun. It is quite engaging to actually be able to answer questions at the same time and see what people are saying while the video is playing. Pretty cool. I liked it. like i i i uh like the the technical issues were a bit irritating like the fact that that the fact that i couldn't scrub the videos a very very weird like feature missing from the software i was i was actually i was just impressed with how well you handled it because i think that that level of stress would have probably got to me quite a lot i mean i i was probably more stressed than I looked the first time. But then once you saw how people reacted, it's fine, right? People are understanding. Yeah. Yeah, and it's a free event. No one's gonna demand stuff. Well, I think for whenever we put this on again in the future, we might want to use YouTube Premiere so that it's already uploaded to YouTube, so there's no chance of yeah of um of downtime from from your your end um and it's immediately live it's immediately live with a link that people so people stop asking like will that will this be recorded like of course it's on youtube it's gonna be recorded actually one thing that i found interesting about that was how much harder it is to give a pre-recorded talk than it is to give a live talk because when you're being like oh yeah you're just kind of talking and stuff and you kind of judge the audience's reaction whereas when you're pre-recording there's no audience to stop you in your tracks and say this what you're doing where you where you going with this and i think the other thing is you know because you got that you put a lot more pressure on yourself for it to be do it to be good so i definitely spent a good seven hours recording clips of that yeah like over and over and over again and then at the end i was just so done i had a beer and just like right and didn't you didn't you lose your video at some point did i lose my video was that someone else oh no i recorded it i recorded the whole thing in segments but the whole thing once without any sound and i recorded various segments with in about i don't know 200 pixels by 200 pixels so ridiculous it was fine because the more i did it the more the better you get and the kind of more refined and the quicker you get to the point of what you want to say which is which is when you're live you don't sometimes you just ramble you know yeah i actually just went uh I just did one take, actually. That's impressive. I went through it, like, once. You did that good. I don't know, man. It was a bit, like, shaky. A lot of ums and, you know. Wow. I think it is a skill to replace, like, you know, you want to have a regex where you, like, do, like, S um for just pause. Yeah. You know, just like, just substitute all ums for pause. You just sound much smarter and much more intelligent. Yeah. Cool. I'm kind of looking through. So people can find that on our YouTube channel, which I'm going to include in the links as well. And then, yeah, I'm just kind of looking through, like, the feedback that we got. You know, like the creative coding stuff, the sapper stuff was really good. Hey, that's Anthony. yeah i mean there's a lot like uh people want to need learn to learn patterns for apps that scale best practices i mean yeah you know all of us want to learn that it's a pretty common requirement isn't it yeah and i that kind of goes hand in hand with what i said about the the courses earlier like most of them are pretty basic and they don't go very like very deep into into the concept but at the same time it's pretty hard to make like that's that's one of the hard things with the job right It true and I think go ahead Nancy I was just going i think that that that landscape is something we see because felt quite new to everyone um and i think maybe at some point we'll get up into the point where we've got a lot of advanced courses and then a few very beginner courses people just entering the space um i think it's something that's that's kind of because of salt is where it is at the moment yeah yeah like me personally I don't really you know if if a if a if a like it's yeah it is a sign of the the project's maturity but like an advanced course is not necessarily a good thing it might mean that just the the framework is too hard to use and you need a lot of teaching to use it use it right true it's true that's very true yeah did did we lose Sean in raw JavaScript right there just isn't that much to to mess around with. Yeah. Oh. Should I get dropped? Nah, we got you back. Yeah, you're back. It sounds like my Wi-Fi is terrible. Okay, so I was just saying, like, if you can hear me now, I was just saying, like, it's not necessarily a good thing that a framework has, like, some advanced course, because, like, that might just mean it's just too hard to use. Yeah. Like, you know, it's kind of, you know, coming from React, like having a bunch of advanced hooks or something, it just like kind of just shows that the basic hooks are not good enough. Right. Yeah. I mean, it's very true. And I think... Yeah. The draw, the draw of spout is that it's so close to HTML and JS that, you know, all your prior existing knowledge applies and that's about it. Like, you can do, go do whatever you need. Yeah. You know. Yeah. It's the advantage of not being, you know, we're not breaking completely new ground. I think React did that for us, which is good because it means that we end up taking the best bits from that and then building on top of that. Yeah. And React, meanwhile, has to kind of add and add and add and have all this sort of, like CSS have seven different ways to do a layout, for example, you know. Is that enough? You know, it is true that people are very interested in Svelte in production. that's another thing I'm seeing in as a common trend in this whole thing. So that kind of ties into the other thing that we doing in the Spell Society site which is kind of consolidating all the known case all the people who use it in production We have like I don know a couple hundred people It's very light. It's just people's logos and stuff. We don't really know what they use it for. But ideally, as part of what Spell Society does, it shows how people have used it in production and that this is not just a random side project of a few people. actually, you know, Anthony is building Bianca on Svelte. And I'm using this, I'm going through this serverless course right now run by Stanley. I don't know his full name, but he was one of the founders of A Cloud Guru, like big deals in the cloud space. And their whole video course platform is built on Svelte. People are using this. They're just not, you know, it's not Facebook, but actually that's a plus. Yeah. Did you guys see the redesign post by Facebook the other day? Yeah. I think they went from like two megabytes of CSS to that's ridiculous. I mean, yeah, I get it. It's one of those things. They keep adding features. You keep adding noise and stuff on top, you know? We're actually... CSS is hard to scale, so I understand that one. so i'm actually working part-time at a company called buddy base and we're using svelte to build like a low code no code thing so that's pretty interesting using it for like the the actual builder side of the project what is it buddybase.com yeah yeah I don't see it buddy base can you type the link yeah no it's a domain that's being squatted maybe I'm just not spelling it right yeah it's B-U-D-I so it's not buddy like a friend we can add a link to the yeah for that builder that's awesome nice yeah i'm interested in the local space i don't know how deep i want to go on it but it's interesting yeah yeah it seems like one of those problems that is very very hard to solve yeah yeah for sure i don't feel any any other comments on the self

 before we move on? No. I'm going to close my window. It's freezing in here. Okay. I think we should for sure do another one. Yeah. Yeah. I think we're thinking fall. Yeah. Give people some time, but then also just keep it going. I think we got some really good momentum with that one. It just went really well. like yeah the attendance was amazing people are interested in svelte um i think i think a lot there's probably a lot of you know the responses that we got like something like 20 something percent of people were using it at work right yeah i think it was actually 30 percent um when i 30 percent yeah yeah obviously that's that's a little bit self-selecting as people who answer surveys um but of course uh you know there are probably a lot of like people who are just curious and this is the first time they're they're learning svelte and all that they're just why i i kind of made my talk a little bit more beginner friendly. But then also like, yeah, I think, you know, the more life we can show, it's, it's all about like keeping up the momentum, right? So the more life we can show that everyone's working on stuff and it's all, it's, this is really taking off that will get people involved in that actually will make it happen. You know, it's kind of like a chicken and egg thing. Yeah. Yeah, for sure. All right, cool. So of course, yeah, the seven hour free code camp course. That's a long course. I didn't actually see this. I don't know if you... No, I've only taken a short look at it, but it seems pretty comprehensive. I think you're building like... Yeah, coverage is happening too. Yeah. Yeah, it's massive. So what do you end up with when you've watched seven hours of this? that is a good question you just know everything yep he builds like he builds four apps uh very covid related hand washing app a covid u.s tracker app project estimator app and a tic-tac-toe app wow and then he covers he covers felt he covers um sapper he covers i think he covers Rotify. Okay. Coverage store. You love Rotify. It's like, oh, now he cool Yeah I dying to use Rotify to be honest I really am You should try it I actually converted my Svelte School site from an exported Sapper site to Routify. But the SSR is a bit odd, right? It doesn't really use the SSR on Svelte. It uses some sort of browser. Yeah, JS DOM, I think. JS DOM thing. Interesting. I'm not sure how I feel about that. That could be interesting. Yeah. He deploys Zapper onto DigitalOcean and includes... I like this because a lot of tutorials get you to localhost and then they're like, oh, now you can deploy it. And then they don't tell you how to deploy it. Yeah. But he actually shows you how to deploy it to DigitalOcean and get your HTTPS cert. Nice. That's very nice. Like, you know, on other platforms, that's automatic. But on DigitalOcean and stuff like that, you need to get it yourself. and like I never remember I just follow a tutorial and that's it so I just let them do it for me now yeah I mean I'm very happy with now Google Cloud doing certificates for me and I've done it myself and I'm like happy with that knowledge and now I'm just like yeah I mean handling SSL certificates is like the most boring thing you can do it is and it's not so much even just provisioning it's the updating of them like every three months unless you've built this automated system. Yeah, which can go down at any time, of course. Break in three months, of course. Yeah. And I've literally been there, done that. It's not much fun. Okay, and then there's this other course. This one's from Firebase. I think both the guys are named Jeff. And yeah, basically this is the Firebase developer relations team getting in on TeachingSvelte. Hello, everybody. And, you know, I like Firebase. It was one of my first, like, you know, baby's first backend because it just does, you know, gives you a good set of stuff out of the box. And, you know, you can build a lot with Svelte and Firebase, I think. Yeah. Yeah. Firebase can be quite hard to integrate with Sapper, for example, because it depends quite heavily on your browser. but if you're building a pure front-end client. Yeah, it's for a single page app, yeah. Yeah then it perfect for that Yeah that kind of Basically there this Yeah Go ahead Go ahead was going to say basically all these backends as a service were originally meant for mobile where there is no server rendering. It's all clients. And then JavaScript was like, hey, we'll get in on that fat client as well. And here we are. So, I mean, that's a little bit like my job in AWS, which I haven't started yet, but eventually we'll start. It also is originally started for mobile. And then they were like, hey, do you know what? Web developers can use this too. And now there are more web developers than mobile developers on it. Yeah, well, I'm always in favor of seeing PWAs bring that together. And also, I guess, PWAs becoming the de facto thing. I'm very against native apps on phone. Now, I do myself use a lot of native apps on phone, but I want everything to be a PBA UA because it just cuts down dev time. It makes things more predictable. It means the browser becomes more powerful. It gets all the sensors and stuff like that. So yeah, I think that Firebase and its ilk are a really good thing and a step in the right direction. Yeah. Cool, cool, cool. Lots of courses. I mean, Rich even mentioned some stuff that I didn't know about, which was like there's someone writing a book, Mark Falkman, I think. Yeah. Yeah. And that's, yeah. I mean, that's pretty cool. I think he did. There's a real publisher doing books on Svelte. I think he did a talk at NordicJS last year. Svelte Talk. I've seen his name around. Yeah. Cool. Snowpack. Who wanted to talk about Snowpack? I mean, I want to talk about it, and then I've given it a little trial. So, you know, Rick, so he's kind of the king of HMR as far as I'm concerned. He's got HMR hooks into the middle of Svelte, and he's got these startup projects where you can actually get proper HMR, hot module reloading in your apps, and you can start developing things pretty damn fast. And I think that Snowpack or NullUp or whatever, you know, whatever the solution becomes, when you're reloading, I mean, the slowpack demo he made, it was reloading in about less than 50 milliseconds or something stupid like that. Wow. And it just means you can just type and see it on screen instantly you know and that for me is kind of the pinnacle of web dev because I know my app fairly hefty and it a good couple of seconds reload at the moment and it a bit annoying because i using live reload um some of the modules i using hot module reloading and it much much easier to develop and it saves your state and you have to kind of flick through staged forms and stuff so i think that anything that brings us close to that if we can get it you know under 50 mils a second for these kind of apps, then that's a real competitive edge for Svelte and there's just nothing a big complaint to Svelte right now is the hot module reloading support is still in sort of developments. It is still experimental effectively. And I think that would be like the final wall broken down and well, why aren't you using Svelte kind of thing? Well, the people what people say, why people say they aren't using Svelte is because of TypeScript support. yeah we've got that on our little list just below I mean that's I couldn't give a but I know it's important to a lot of people so that's an interesting topic to discuss for sure they say it's important right but watch us implement TypeScript support and then they're like ah but there's other things that now we actually care about that's the truth of development right that's how that works I think I think let's let's if anyone's got anything to say on hot module learning or snowpack whatever we can continue but I think let's move on to typescript yeah let's do it oh I just I just wanted to I just want to shout out that so the other you know there's a bunch of work in this domain of like I'm like less bundling it's not like completely no bundling but then when you when you buy into the ES modules for everything idea then you can unlock a you know a lot less a lot more sort of better developer experience and maybe better user experience. So Vite from the Vue framework is getting quite some development from Evenue. And then Li Hao from our end of the world is working on the Svelte port of Vite. I don't think he has a name for it yet, but essentially like, you know, super fast gets startup time because you're not bundling. Right. And so far, actually, everything in Svelte bundles, right? Like we use Rollup or Webpack. Yeah. And so the way that we save time is because we don't actually have to rebundle everything. We just transpile some files and then we run it in the browser and hope it works. Yeah. And yeah.

 And Leehouse has been working on this. He's even got preprocessors and WebSockets working or something. I don't know. I haven't tried it out because he hasn't released it. But I think there's quite a lot of development in this field. And it just means that everything gets faster for us. Yeah, I was not aware of that at all. That's really fascinating stuff. That's brilliant stuff, in fact. Cool. Yeah, I can't wait to try that. Really good. Okay, now your TypeScript rant. I mean, I don't have a TypeScript. I think TypeScript is, you know, I come from Java, right? I come from a land where types exist and they're strictly enforced. And then I started developing Groovy where types are kind of optional. And then I moved to JavaScript where types didn't exist when I started. And I think that I understand types. I believe in types. And I know that TypeScript is very strict on types and has some really powerful typing. Does frontend need that, you know, in order for it to be usable? no i don't i don't think it does um and i think that's really the feeling of a lot of people a lot of spell maintainers for example however it's not that we're not averse to it it's just that we either don't you know we don't use typescript ourselves or it's not been uh something that's on our priority list is important and it's only the community that's driven that so it's definitely important it's definitely there um and we're happy to have people who know much more about this stuff contribute and bring that ecosystem to spell if it's if it's that important to them so all good and fun and I think that it's in a good place right now there's some decisions to be made on how we support it and how native that is but I think that it's very usable today and the linters work and the plugins for various ideas work and stuff so so yeah not a rant at all I think a time and a place I don't feel it's very important but obviously people do and that's great then you know let's have it let's have TypeScript as an optional, you know, if you want it, you can use it, right? It's, I mean, there's this meme of TypeScript people, right? You will know if someone wants TypeScript because they will tell you. They're quite the most about it, aren't they? They're quite... Quite vocal, yeah. I wish that people would be, I just wish that people would be more precise about what kind of TypeScript support they want because obviously there's preprocessors for the script tag. So we're really talking about like having a language server for the templates, right? Yeah. And that's being worked on. The moment I finish this stupid book I really want to work on it Because I think language servers are cool and I think that basically every framework every language in the world is trending towards having a language server because it improves the developer experience so much. And that's cool. That's autocomplete, and that's type checking on attributes and stuff like that. Yeah, so it will happen eventually. And there's a lot of people complaining about it, but not a lot of people working on it. Exactly. Yeah. If we can turn those people who are very, very verbal about, you know, wanting it and complaining about that's not there or whatever. If we can turn those into people who will actually proactively push us forward in the right direction, then fantastic. Okay. Svelte internals. Who wanted to talk about this? Oh yeah, that was me. So Tan Li Hao released his third blog post about the internals of Svelte. I don't know if you've read it yet, but it's very nice. I've read the first book. Very nice stuff. So something for people to check out? Any quick TILs for you? Sorry? Any quick TILs? Like today I learned that something happened. Not really. I've only skimmed it. But it's about actions, and I love actions. So that's definitely for me. Yeah. The answer to every question on the Discord is really an action for that. Yeah. But they are really nice, though. They are good. They are good. Yeah. I just need to make a video about it. There's an action for that. I think we should have, like, a meme. Wow, that's actually a pretty funny thing. I mean, yeah, that'd be a great blog post, actually, if you work on that. For me, I haven't used Actions except I copy and pasted something from the Svelte docs. Like drag and drop. I needed a dragable component so I just copied and pasted that. They're basically just life cycles. Basically hooks for Svelte. Yeah. For elements, really. They're like behaviors, right? You can build a bunch of behaviors that are common and you can just apply your behaviors to anything you want. I think that the fundamental concept and that brilliant because you can it like where you go from extending something in traditional object orientation to actually you mixing something in your there multiple inheritance an element you or component you build can suddenly have these three different behaviors added to it which is which is brilliant yeah that uh i actually using actions heavily in the svelte forms library trying to make it so so that it like so you can actually just use the actions that you want if you want to like customize some some form that you know that's cool rather than using like a full component pretty much i use it for validation a lot and it's and it's absolutely absolutely brilliant it's really useful yeah yeah one way that you know the idea for this compiles felt in your head it was actually like that was the first talk that i think i gave at svelte society new york um it was just like you know let's let's look at this template and let's actually see what it's doing under the hood then the black box of the svelte compiler goes away you know um because because we we understand what it generates but we don't have to write what it generates uh spelt just saves us saves us the the um the the manual work of like writing that right and we just have a nice nice syntax to to to write stuff um so that that's the whole idea behind this thing and he actually took it and ran with it so yeah i think the the problem for me if i look at the like the if you go to the repl and you just check the JS output. It's that it's mixed in with these internal methods and it gets a bit confusing the first time you see it. Yeah, but actually when you just follow the methods and see how they're implemented, it's quite easy to actually understand it. They're usually like one-liners. Yeah. It's pretty great to have a full transpile mode where you actually just take out the internal methods and just just put in their implementation in there yeah so like people can see it's raw js you know raw vanilla javascript yeah i think it's a weird thing because i think one of the early complaints of spelt so i've been using spelt since version one right it's been i've been a long time and one of the early complaints was because there's no runtime common functions get duplicated and therefore you've got this this um the application grows in size exponentially and i think that the that the um the import from common is actually uh the solution to that uh you know you now sharing more functionality it makes it a bit more opaque but obviously it a better solution but the funny thing is that the people who are complaining about it having no commonality to the runtime are now complaining that it got a runtime and it like well what do you want? You know, what's the answer? You can't satisfy everyone. No, you really can't. Especially in open source, right? No, definitely not in open source. Free things are ultimately more expensive, right? Yeah. All right, cool. Next one? Yeah. This one is like a complete... So SiteDocs and Monorepo. I don't know. I'm not a huge fan of Monorepos. I understand they make some things easier, but I think basically just GitHub's not very good for Monorepos. It isn't right now, no. And NPM is not very good either, right? I think that the reason that they coexist, I know the reason they coexist is because it helps the docs fit the version of the code that the docs relate to so because they live side by side it means that there's no kind of complex version of the two there's probably other approaches to it but I don't know of any that work particularly well so yeah that's the reason when you can do like GitHub remotes but that's a whole bag of pain yeah yeah you know that oh did we lose it yeah oh there we go welcome back so you guys did your video on this whole time and I was just staring my wifi needed a kicking so I went and kicked it all right cool did you uh where are we at uh i think we were just about to finish talking about the side docs in the monorepo yeah did we did we mention that it was the docs we were talking about did we just start talking about monorepos okay oh right um it was just just the docs yeah um that we wanted to pair like you know pair the versions and stuff um which like yeah that's that's a that's a valid reason it's just like it causes a lot of noise because you know uh if you wanted to look at code. It's hard to figure out the code, especially when the filtering stuff in the PR section of GitHub doesn't really filter, you know, docs versus whatever.

 I guess we could tag it, but nobody tags anything. Yeah, well, I think the tagging, again, works really well, but you end up tagging two different projects, and so it's a bit harder to get it across that way. And also, you don't necessarily have to tag every time you update the docs, right? It can be done on master and then rolled into a single tag. So, yeah, it's a problem looking for a solution, I guess, still. All right, let's talk about this transition thing. Yeah. Yeah. So the story behind this is Adam Ruckis pops up on Twitter saying he just loves the animation spell, and it's unbelievable, and React's kind of put to shame by it. And then, obviously, Dan Abramov gets sort of, hang on a minute, this can't happen, this can't be said. and he replies saying yeah but look I found some bugs and he starts you know demonstrating bugs that we know are there you know there is issues in well there was issues in Svelte's transitions and then this guy called Pushkin who's I shouldn't say pronounce his name been appearing on Discord quite a lot just out of nowhere just goes bang fixed it and you know he's just fixed the whole he's fixed probably one of the most long standing bugs in Svelte that I know of. And it fixes a load of other bugs and it closes about 10 issues. And the animation demo that he provided is just insane. It's super fast, super slick. Just by fixing some sort of internal compilation thing, it's just incredible. So yeah, I mean, quite an interesting morning when I woke up and read that on Twitter. Yeah. You need that push from people and you need Danny Bamoff doing your QA. Yeah, right. This is why competition is good, right? Yeah, for sure. I didn't really get the bug. I think it was just like clicking on things while they're transitioning. Is that it? It's a variety of things around, I believe, when a component gets invalidated and maybe disappears from the page, but the transitions are still scheduled to run because the view is changing. And the transitions would run but obviously the new stuff would start coming into the page And it caused things such as pages piling up on top of each of them in Sapper It would often in Sapper in fact if you click fast enough it would break the routing because the routing hooks into the URLs being clicked. And if those clicks aren't registered, their history gets out of step and you end up with a, you've got to hard refresh the site. And what we've learned from customers at Bianca actually is that people don't know about hard refreshing like us developers do. It doesn't occur to them. So they'll sit there with a broken site forever. They'll just be like, well, this site doesn't work. And so this bug became, at least for me, like super critical, so critical, so important. And then it was just really hard to fix and no one knew how. And then one morning, bang, there we go. Is it a big PR? I don't know. I haven't actually looked at the PR. I'm more of sort of obsessed with the results. But I don't think it's particularly big. It's kind of like ordering events, maybe a conditional or something. I don't know. It's one of those things that's going to be... One of those one-liners. Yeah. That's great. Yeah, I think I've actually come across that in page transitions in Sapper. So now that makes sense to me. Yeah, same. That's really cool. All right, next. So the next one is about ALM Y or accessibility. One of those weird words that I abbreviate with numbers for some reason. yeah that always confused me yeah i even say ally it's meant to be it's meant to be short it's like it's ally right like like being an ally of like people who are less abled and whatever anyway um i didn't know i didn't know sorry i thought i thought the 11 stood for 11 characters omitted it did it does it does It does, but it also can be viewed as LI. It's just like a nice trick. Anyway, I didn't know this existed. Then we found it in the PRs, and then we found it in the docs, and we were like, oh, this is actually documented, and we just didn't read the docs. So you can, you know, Svelte checks for accessibility by default. Sometimes that's annoying. For example, if you know you don't need it for some reason, then you can, you know, write a comment and say Svelte ignore, and that ignores stuff. So that led me to find out that the accessibility warnings for Svelte are not complete. Issue 820 links to the remaining accessibility checks that haven been implemented yet So these are actually really good first issues So about half of the issues that we want to tackle are not yet implemented So we can just go do them at some point. And it's important because I think a great strength as well, again, is accessibility. Because it has been written, accessibility first is something that's very important to Rich, I think. And so it's been written in that way. and I think that to get these to get these close would be a really important step so so like you know this ties a little bit to like we've had conversations about how Babel transpiles inside templates for you know like how much you know these things like you know these are texts and I assume they just get run every time we transpile a Svelte file I don't know. Yeah, I think it's part of the compilation process, right? I think it's part of the compilation process. It's just running a bunch of checks to make sure things are valid. It will obviously add to compile time, but then, you know, that's what a compiler's job is, right? It's something you run in development time, and it's something that hopefully doesn't take too long, and then the final product benefits from it without any impact. I actually wonder if there's, like, a two-phase compile where, like, one is just, like, you know, we're just in dev, whatever, and then a production compile that has different checks. I think that would be... Sorry, Karen, sure. No, I wonder if that's reasonable or maybe that's what we already do. I don't know. Well, I think that's something that would be almost... It would be tied in with the way Snowpack works and the way that Nullup works, right? So the way that Nullup works is that it doesn't do all the tree shaking that Rollup does because Rollup is very... a very powerful tool that can make your code base really small. But that, that comes at a cost. And I think Nullup just takes that bit away for development time. So you're building with two different frameworks. I think the same thing then applies to the way Snowpack works. It's not bundling. It's not tree shaking in dev and in production you are. So I think this, these, this check could also tie in with that. If, if Svelte's compiler was, like you said, it was, it was designed in a way that you could say in dev, we don't really care about these things. The only one possible side effect of that, I guess is that you don end up benefiting from these things until you actually building for production which is a little bit too late um it almost comes under the guise of a test suite um maybe there a way that this can be run like linting perhaps so uh i don know you tie in with your build process or whatever um your pre your github for me github pre-chip pre-hooks i can't pronounce it you know yeah get hooks get hooks yeah yeah the ones before you commit yeah cool um i think yeah so like you know before before this recording i think we went through prs and issues and stuff like that i think the last one that we had was um when your component name is anchor it will break the app um so that's pretty funny yeah naming things um yeah naming things is hard they say it is well i think it also it also like kind of i i mean i did not know how we parsed things in svelte um and like it's a little creaky right like it's a little like we'll parse these things as far as we go and then we'll hand it over to Acorn or whatever. And that causes things like this, where you're using regex, or you're using some sort of partial string thing. You're not really using an AST. You're using kind of like a weird, I don't know, just partial consumption of... As a compiler, you partially consume strings. And when you have rules like this and you didn't really think about it, it breaks the app, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah, absolutely. It's a multi-layered process, I think, yeah. isn't there also like uh i think this has happened before right or well i mean if this has been in the source code this has also happened before probably but there's another tag also that that someone used that broke things i think i don't remember if yeah it seems like it rings a bell but i'm not i'm not entirely sure uh whatever i'm sure i'm sure we'll fix it that's just funny to what happens. And I know that I've been there and I would think that I'm wrong but then actually Svelte was wrong and then it just takes like two hours to find out. Yeah. Those are for sure the worst issues. Bugs. For me at least. Yeah. Last one. A Wheaton Catch. Yeah. Yeah. So why don't you like this, Anthony? Um, I...

 Yeah, I guess my view for a templating language for a view framework, you know, for a framework that deals with the view, is that it is logicless. That's the kind of the goal, the pinnacle of how it should be. And over time, we've moved more and more closely towards logicless templates. React then took that and said, screw that, I'm putting logic directly in template, and I'm now encouraging people to use it. And that's one of the aversions I have to React is that I don't find a lot of React projects that come across readable because people have bundled all the logic and outputting bits of DOM elements just shoved all together. And you really can't see, you can't visualize in your head when you're reading that code what this HTML structure is going to look like. um and obviously uh the reason i like one of the reasons i like spelt is because it doesn't have that it has a very light kind of almost handlebars the logic uh thing on the templates and i feel that await is a step too far in the wrong direction we're bringing uh actual logic back into the templates we're allowing you to await promises and then deal with the result and this kind of a weight catch thing has come from then having to catch errors in that scenario and it it's moving the code back into template and that's why i i don't agree with it and i always await for things in in my script block um and then i um i deal with results merely you know this is this is what you've got and that's what you can do with it and any error handling is dealt with before that um so i so i i don like a weight catch because i feel that it it should it doesn belong in the templates kev is so bored of my rant that he taken his headphones off No I mean like you had that at the moment you had ifs in the templates It's hard to get away with not having ifs, right? That's what I mean by logic free is a goal, but no one's reached it yet. Like await is basically asynchronous if then else, you know? well okay i guess i guess i guess my my view on this is you can't you can't move an if statement really but um i'm not sure where we're going what we're going to do with that but okay anyway so um yeah like you know i felt i felt weird in my data fetching talk i introduced the weight and then i was like uh actually i'll use the weight um you put everything in stores um i think it's just a nice shorthand and that's and that's a lot like it's sugar right you can take as much sugar as you want and if it helps, if it doesn't help then don't use it I understand that a weight isn't the best way to handle things for some situations but it can be nice to drop in but given that a weight exists, we might as well throw in catch in there, right? It's necessary, people are going to use it and I agree with flexibility and sugar is good to a limit. The problem for me is that obviously in React you don't have to use those things in the template. You don't have to iterate things like with a short iteration of the template. But people do. You can and then they will. And then it means that all Yeah, you can just not use it. I think one of the higher level things I think about when I think about things like this is like how do we approach language design And you know there this debate about how JavaScript So we were just, so we were just talking about like how we approach language design. And I was saying like, you know, people actually view JavaScript as like this, you know, it had a rough patch, but then now we have like this very formalized process with TC39 and every year there's like new features in JavaScript. But there's actually people within JavaScript who don't like, sorry, there's actually people within TC39 who don't like the current process TC39. For them, because we release a new feature every year, we don't really have a holistic design perspective to the whole language. We just add features based on individual pitches. And if everyone likes the pitch, then we go implement them. It doesn't really have a consistency throughout the language sometimes. So that's why some people within CC39 are advocating for, you know, do what ES6 did. ES6 was like, we'll chunk up the ideas of the last 10 years. And we just put them all together at once, make sure the design is coherent. Think through the interaction use cases between new features, stuff like that. and just be a lot more intentional and careful about it because once it's in, you can't really take it out. Yeah, exactly. That's definitely breaking. So that's something like Svelte is a language, right? And if we're going to do language design by PR, that might be fine and democratic, but then maybe we need some overall vision and some way of versioning things and making sure that they all work together you know Yeah Yeah absolutely That makes sense Of course, having said that, I'm not going to do it, but, but hopefully people, hopefully we'll figure it out. Like I, you know, one of my issues is, was felt is also like governance. Like, I don't really know how it's run. Like conduit tree kind of just runs everything. Yeah. um but at some point like you know ritual ritual again like he's he's still doing the personal stuff i reckon uh but it sounds like he's he's coming he's he's getting ready to come back you know so um we'll see what happens yeah yeah yeah he's definitely gearing up he's doing talks and he's doing some some sort of behind the scenes stuff so so yeah i don't think it'll be long now well also he's doing a workshop uh in june so that that forces him to like teach salt that's really like something you when you try to teach people you kind of notice like the weird quirks yeah that you don't like nice way to to get into the language yeah all right any uh any final thoughts before we wrap it up cool um well this was the first first recording um i think we got through like a full hour it was amazing yeah quite easily took longer than i than i thought it would actually like the just looking at like the like the topics i thought it would be a quick quick thing like 20 minutes or something yeah yeah but like multiply by by three people commenting on things like i think i think you get you get there yeah um cool i you know so i think we'll we'll call it for this recording but you know we'll try to make this a regular thing i think this is fun yes yes i agree yeah all right