 Thank you. Hi everyone. Hi. Welcome to everyone who's here in this room in Brooklyn and welcome to everyone also on the live stream. Hopefully this is coming through okay. I can see myself on YouTube so I think it is. Just in this room raise your hands if you've been to a Cell Society meeting before. Okay, a few returners. Raise your hand if you haven't been to a Svelte Society meeting before. All right, raise your hand if you didn't raise your hand. Okay, good. So the seed that would eventually grow into Svelte.js was planted in my head in a barge from here called 61 Local, where for a few years, every month, the great and good of the New York JavaScript scene would gather for a meetup called Brooklyn.js. And in a a time when meetups were generally fluorescent lit affairs with catered stale pizza. Brooklyn JS showed us the value of authentic community. We'd gather once a month and we would share our excitement about the fun and interesting and quick aspect of programming. And so I'm thrilled that we're able to gather here in person and continue some of that legacy. Of course this is not just an in-person event, this is also a global conference. We have an international speaker list and we have virtual attendees from every corner of the globe So if you one of those virtual attendees and you haven already then I encourage you to join the Discord and hop in the Svelte Summit channel and be part of that community So this month is the fifth birthday of Svelte and I felt like it a good opportunity to take a moment to reflect on some of the milestones along that journey. All began at the end of November. Sorry about this. There's a message from here saying you can increase the volume a little bit. I'm going to increase the volume. Can I just stand like this? Would that help? Yeah. Is this better? No, no, no. That's the microphone volume. I'm not going to gain here. Can you speak normally? Like, some distance? Okay. Yeah. Hopefully that would be better, but it would take him a while to... Is the laptop's sound off? Sorry? Bear with it. This is the first time I've done this. Yeah, this is probably high relevance. Yeah, it's supposed to be out though. I'm not playing it from my laptop. I mean, it's a laptop. It's not connected to the sound or anything. There's no sound on it. Yeah, no, but the microphone in. Oh, okay. Yeah, that's what we're doing. Is he hearing absolutely nothing? He's saying his potato. That's how he described his potato. but he's saying maybe speak a little bit slower as well because it's a log diction okay it probably doesn't help that I have three microphones connected to me and there's a lot of feedback okay we'll keep going so 30th of November 2016 we announced to the world on Hacker News which meant that 30th of November of 2016 was the first time we got some Hacker News comments And it's always a nice little reminder that it's the easiest thing in the world to be a naysayer, but you have to weigh up the immediate dopamine rush with the chance that someone is going to screenshot your comment and use it five years later to make fun of you. July 2017 the first talk about Svelte was given at Brooklyn JS down the road At the end of 2017 we launched Sapper which was a full stack framework inspired by Next It was our version of the ideal application framework built using Svelte, and it was the forerunner for today's Svelte kit. In April 2018, we launched Svelte 2. April 2019, we launched Svelte 3, which was a ground up rethink how user interface frameworks should be designed. And then in October of 2019, we saw the launch of Svelte Society with simultaneous meetups in London, organized by Anthony, and New York, organized by Svelte. And then the following April, we had the first ever global virtual conference, known now as Svelte Summit. In July of that year, a team led by Orta on the TypeScript team, got TypeScript into Svelte. That was one of our most requested features. At the very beginning of 2021, we got the results of the state of JavaScript survey and Svelte was crowned the framework with highest levels of satisfaction. A few months later, the Stack Overflow developer survey crowned us the most loved framework. October 2021, last month, was the launch of Svelte Sirens, which is a group for people in the community who are women or non-binary, Brittany is here. Say hello Brittany. Should we answer any questions that you have about that? I think you're gonna hear some more about Svelte Science later in the conference. Also last month we had the Svelte Ambassadors Program. This is a way that we can lift up and support some of the most valuable and beloved members of the community. And then this month I got a new job. I work at the cell now. And Svelte got its first full-time maintainer. I'm so happy about, it's a huge move for me personally, obviously, but it's also I think a big deal for the Svelte community, it means we can move faster and dream bigger. And I'm excited to meet some of my new coworkers today. Thank you for flying in Me joining the cell meant we got more hacking news comments Look at the shape of this curve So at the beginning of this year we had a hundred thousand weekly downloads, now we have 200,000 weekly downloads. If we continue that trajectory then sometime in 2037 every person on planet Earth will be downloading Spelt once a week. Numbers don't lie. Of course adoption is is not a meaningful metric by itself. As an open source maintainer, you should never strive for adoption. But to the extent that this curve means that more people are discovering or waiting to build the web that is more fun and more accessible and more productive, then this trajectory brings me joy. I wanna make some acknowledgements and I have a little so that I don't forget anyone. It's while I have the microphone. I wanna thank Swix, first of all, who made this watch party happen and SWIX is an absolute force of nature in the Svelte community. He's been a great friend for me and a great friend of Svelte, and we're very privileged. Thank you. I also want to shout out to SWIX's employer, Temporal, which is sponsoring this event, the watch party. You should all take the opportunity to bombard SWIX with questions about it. In addition to supporting SWIX by paying me to work on it, Vassell is also making today possible both by sponsoring this watch party and sponsoring the summit itself. So thank you for that. And thank you to all the other sponsors of the summit, names you can see on the website. Conferences like these are an absolute ton of work and Kevin and the rest of the organizers deserve our deep gratitude for today. Of course conferences are only as good as their speakers. We have some fantastic speakers lined up. Everything that I've talked about today is only possible because of the hard work of many, many people who have contributed to the project in some way from the core team, I love you all. I think of you as wonderful friends. So people who have contributed in myriad other ways, thank you. And last of all, you and you. Spelt Society has 12,000 members and 25 chapters all around the world, Brazil, India, Russia, China, France, the Philippines, many other places. Today is your day and I hope you enjoy it. Thank you. Back to Kev.