 Welcome to Svelte Radio. All right. Hello, everyone. Welcome to another episode of Svelte Radio. I'm here with a previous guest of ours. that is, I've never met him before well, that's not true, I met him yesterday actually hello Scott, nice to finally meet you likewise so we're both here for a conference in New York and the stars aligned we've managed to figure out a time slot for doing an interview so, Svelte 5 is out what are your thoughts? actually, wait, sorry, who are you before we start? Yeah, I'm Scott Talinsky. These days, I'm the co-host of the Syntax podcast, Syntax.fm. And we're releasing a lot on YouTube these days. So I think that the line that we're hitting now is that Syntax isn't a podcast anymore. Syntax has a podcast in that we are doing more than just a podcast. And the podcast is just one of the things. We hired CJ Reynolds to come on, and he's been doing a lot of great content on our YouTube, too. So we're doing a lot of video and stuff. So I have to get used to saying not just the Syntax podcast, I'm, you know, of Syntax. Yeah. Right. And so, yeah, I'm here in New York right now. I've been doing a lot of interviews. I got to interview Rich yesterday in a really tall tower that overlooked New York. That was pretty incredible. You showed me some pictures yesterday. Yeah. It looked like a fake backdrop. Right. It was incredible. Yeah. I wish I could go up there at some point. Yeah. It was wild. It looked like one of those things where they project or put like a sheet, like a news channel, and make it look like you're high up. But we were actually there. It was a joy to get to chat with Rich for a while, and that's going to be on, I think, GetNation's YouTube channel. And today I was emceeing React Summit. Right, in a Svelte t-shirt. Sadly, I did not wear my Svelte t-shirt today. I wore it all day yesterday. And then we did a family feud game for the Primogen Twitch channel And I was on a team with Kent C Daz Tanner Lindsley and Wes Boss And before I got there they named our team the Reactleys. And so I decided to wear my Svelte t-shirt and I had to move my name text so that way the Svelte logo wouldn't be covered. I had to not claim React. But yes, today I'm seeing React Summit, which is funny, but I had a great time. Awesome conference, yeah. Yeah, I saw some pictures of your team, I think, and the signs were comically large as well. They're comically large, and they were so funny. They were falling over in different directions, and nobody could get them on. The whole thing was very funny because you're expected to make jokes and stuff on the fly. And I can be funny if I'm thinking about it, but if somebody shoves a microphone in my face and just make a joke, I'm like, oh. That's hard. So a large part of the comedy of my performance there was just the fact that I could not say anything at all. It was just, oh, yeah. But it was fun. It was cool. So what kind of, where will people be able to catch that? Yeah, I think it's on the PrimaGens Twitch channel right now. Oh. I believe that's how Twitch works, but I'm not 100% bothered. Maybe you put it on YouTube, too. Right. Yeah, it was a wild event. Yes. Certainly. All right. Cool, cool. And we won. That's good. That's the most important part. All right. So you probably caught Rich's talk yesterday, like the North Star talk that he did. What do you think about Svelte 5 now that you've used it? I didn't get to check. Oh, no. Because I was interviewing at that time. I had to do a number of interviews. So, yeah, I had to miss like a lot of talks I wanted to see because of that. So I'll have to watch it. But, yeah, as far as Svelte 5 goes, oh, man. I've been using it for so long at this point It feels like it's been out for years It feels like it's been out for a long time and I was pretty much any side project I was doing or even my own website I would do in Svelte 5 even though it's like do not use this you know it's like low stakes Not production ready, stop, stop I managed to hold off on even attempting the syntax site until the migration tool because that site is big enough where you would have to touch a lot of components. And I knew the migration assistant would be good. So I'm going to wait and I'm going to hold off, even though some of the state around our audio player and stuff it a little complex And it a little like It the type of state that anytime I was touching it I was like I wish this was the newer stuff because I feel like I had a much better handle on keeping things organized without the way that we were doing with custom stuff. Yeah, I feel similarly. We waited. So I'm doing some client work. I used the migration tool for a project that we're moving to Svelte 5, and it was easy peasy. Just a couple of things to update. Yeah, I think I had to touch like 15 files or something, which was like minimal concerning how big the site is. Yeah, so it was a very smooth migration, but after the last migration assistant, I knew it would be. Yeah, the bar is set very high now, right? It's amazing. For like all of the migrations lately, it's been pretty good. Very smooth. Yeah, so I'm liking it. You know, there are some times where I feel like I don't have a handle on why my state is not updating or like there are some times where I'm like, all right, does it make sense to use an effect here? Does it make sense to even use state here at all? There are some times where I'm still not 100% confident in some of the choices that I'm making, but that's the same thing with anything new. And yeah, it's definitely, in my mind, it feels more organized, even if there are new things you have to pick. Yeah, the reactive statement thing could get super confusing, right? Totally. But the good thing about Svelte 4 was that everything was reactive, right? Yes. You didn't have to worry about it. Right, yeah. So now you have to kind of think a bit about it. I saw recently now on, I think it was GitHub, that Dominic Ganaway made, I think, a PR for a new rune called inspect.trace, which kind of lets you see the, you put it inside of an effect, I think, and then you can see the actual dependencies and how they update. So I think that's going to be really useful. Yeah, you know what's so funny is that in the entire time that we've had Svelte, there was like the debug. What was it before? Act debug or something. I never really used it. I didn't really use it either. But nobody else is really doing kind of like custom console log stuff And the inspector at first I was like I wish this was just a console log But then I was thinking about it I like there so much more powerful There's so much more I can do. And I really sincerely appreciate it that it says init or update because you're never guessing about how the value is set or if it's updating. And I've been doing so much stuff with like local data where the data is being loaded from here and then it's like either being picked up by the server or what. And I was hitting situations where I had to refresh that cache, and something was updating here and not there. And I'm just like, all right, I throw a couple of inspects on where the state's being used. And it made it really trivial to find out, all right, it's not ever updating in this component, and I'm confirming that more than just visually or whatever. And therefore, that really makes it easier to get into what's going on. Yeah, so the stuff that I build, I so rarely use, like effect and stuff. Derived, maybe a bit. But it's because it's mostly non-interactive stuff. I do use it for some things, but generally not a lot. Yeah, you can get by with derived, derived, by to do a lot. And for me, I'm like trying to train, because I'm working on some Svelte bindings for a local first library, Xero. And I'm looking at the solid code, the React bindings, and I'm like, how do I translate this? Right. Which obviously the solid version makes more sense. Yeah. But there's still like different helpers there and things like that. So I'm like always thinking, do I need to use Effect here? Right. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. They're using it. do we need it though? It's a matter of trying there sometimes. For me at least. I actually pinged Rich. I'm like, hey, by the way, if you want to lend a hand on me. Because he was asking if I... He's in the chat room and he was just like, hey, do you have those full bindings for these? I was like, I have them, but let me tell you there's a lot of red squigglies in these files, so yeah, if you'd like to help. All right. All right. So, yeah, so that's effect. What do you think about the other stuff in Svelte 5, like snippets? Oh, yeah. Do you use those a lot? Yeah, I found myself using snippets a lot. It is funny because we built the syntax site in SvelteKit, and...

 Wes, my co-host, Wes Boss, he's very deep into React still, and he really appreciates Svelte. So when he started working on our site, he's like, wow, this is so great for these following reasons. My biggest gripe is that if I am doing like looping over a list and I just want a little mini component of list items, I have to make a whole file, and that really bugs me. And so he hasn't gotten to try out Svelte 5 yet, but that is like the use case for me, especially like little things like that. Now, sometimes my brain is still defaulting to just create a file because I'm so used to single file components. But yeah, I've been loving snippets a lot. The only thing I don't like about them is having to always do in TypeScript like the snippet children prop stuff. Like I would just love it to just not exist for some reason. Yeah, just be automatic. I mean, the children prop should be, it's, what's it called? Reserved, I think. Yes. So I feel like they should be able to. Maybe they do now. I don't know. I like it because I say that and then you think about it. It's like, well, that kind of breaks some of the rules of TypeScript and obviously whatever, they don't want to do that. So, yeah, a lot of times I get these web dev feelings that are completely nonsensical in that way, where it's less about is it practical and more of just like, I just want it that way. Totally, totally. For me, as a user that is not really using effects, I wasn't really using reactive statements that much either. So for me, going from Svelte 4 to Svelte 5 is not as big of an improvement probably as it is for some people that are doing super interactive stuff. You met Brady yesterday as well, and he's doing super interactive things with 3D models and stuff like that, way above my pay grade. But then I can see that, like, yeah, you probably want a better way of doing state. Even like I was alluding to, like, the state in our syntax for the audio player is surprisingly super complex. And you're having to keep things in sync with, like, a web component. But we also, you kind of want to have that information available outside of the component anywhere. There a lot to it for some reason and that state just bloomed so fast And it going to greatly be simplified even by moving into a class which is something that I did not expect to be doing Because even like up until like a couple months ago, I was putting all of my Svelte 5 state into functions, creating with a function. And since I've opened my mind up to even attempting to use classes for this stuff and like, you know, I can't use a class. I'm only using classes now. Yeah, it's crazy. And I actually, we had, since we're moving the syntax site over and I'm trying to, you know, update the team on it, we wanted to have like a really strong style guide for the code style because we didn't have that before. I'm used to always working on projects just by myself. So now I'm with the team. It's like, all right, we need a strong style guide for this. And I proposed a bunch of stuff. And I'm like, classes are functions for state. And everybody was like functions. And I was like, all right, but let me show you the class version and the function version. and then they'll, well, yeah, let's use the classes. It's way easier. I think it's just the Gitters and Setters stuff. It all makes sense, but they're just about actions. Yeah, no, totally. It's really before Svelte 5, I didn't really use a lot of classes in JavaScript. Same, none of you. So I did some React stuff before moving over to Svelte, and I came in just as hooks were released. So I never really used classes in React either. So for me, it's a whole new world kind of. But it's fun. It's like new stuff, new stuff to learn, just in general, very nice. Nice developer experience. It's oddly enough opened me up to using classes in other ways that I like had not done before. And I'm like, oh, I went from being like only functional everything to being like, no, actually, classes are kind of all right. Yeah, as long as you don't do it in a really kind of wild way where you inherit from very deeply and then you have no idea where some method that is on the class is coming from. You're like, what is going on? But just keep them simple. And with UI code, you hardly ever have to get in there. Yeah, totally. Yeah, I tend to use nowadays classes for... So I usually build services for fetching data and stuff from a database in the backend and the load functions and stuff. And that pretty nice Yeah I did it for auth for the same type of thing Yeah I like it So this local first thing that you been working on I feel like you've been diving into the local first world lately. For like maybe half a year-ish. I forget where or why it first came onto my radar. Man, I really wish I could remember. Probably Dax? Not even Dax. Yeah, I was shocked when I found out Dax was into it because he and I were both using Replicash. So I had already shipped something with Replicash when I found out Dax was using it too. And yeah, I forget what I did. I saw something and it made so much sense to me because I was very deep into SSR specifically for a lot of things. And with local first, you're almost doing entirely client-side rendering for everything. And you think, oh, no, wait, we're past client-side rendering. Well, actually, like, well, there's a lot of really great benefits to the client side rendering with local first stuff. And everything happening on the client means that you don't have to worry about optimistic UI. You don't have to worry about any kind of latency whatsoever. You don't have to worry about poor network conditions. And a lot of the apps I was building, I was using in poor network conditions. And so I made a dance app for myself, and I swiped away the dance moves that I'd used in competition because you're not supposed to repeat them. And so that notoriously bad Wi-Fi. And I was using it at my practice space, and I was like, okay, this is a terrible experience because of the latency. So then I made an optimistic UI. And I'm like, okay, yeah. But then if they failed, now you have the failed state. It feels good. Right. But then it feels worse when it fails. So that's what's been amazing about the local data stuff is that you're largely saving to a database that's in the client, whether that is IndexedDB or even something crazier. And the moment that you tap that thing, it saves to the database. And in the background, for people who don't know, typically what that's doing doesn't have to. But let's say you wanted to sync to a third-party server. You click it, it does the thing, and in the background there's a process that says, oh, change happened, let's sync with that server. And with something like Replicash, it's sending patch messages. So not like just an object of the data, but it's sending a patch message of only the information that the server needs to have. The only problem with Replicash was is that when you write your push and pull server it way harder because now you not like getting an object with the data that you need to update You getting this like patch message that has what version the data is in like what specifically has changed. And you have to like manage that all yourself. So you have to write like a dissing engine kind of. Yeah. You have to do so much of that stuff manually that it was just like, oh, this is really worth it, but it's a giant pain. I did this in my Svelte Summit talk. I showed the push or pull server, I forget which, the amount of step takes when data comes into the server. It's like a 15-step process of checking the version and updating the version, looking at the server version or the row version, and it's like, oh, my gosh. It's a lot of steps. Yeah, it's a lot of steps. So I have an app that I have using Replication. It's nice, but there's a ton of different local first platforms, and it wasn't until recently that people have told on how to make this easier. And there's a few people that have, like InstantDB is a product that's available right now, but it's closed source and it's like a Firebase. It's like they remade Firebase to be local first. And it is very good, but it felt a little immature. And when I built an app in it, I had a really good time. It worked really easily, came out of the box with auth, everything saved locally, synced in the back, and it was just like effortless. But then when I got into data permissions and stuff like that, you find the edges of this thing. And it is really good, but there are edges. And then the Replicash folks have been working on Xero, which I'm not going to share any of the technical back end because I don't know if this is going to be released or Xero will be released by then. It should be. And in that case, you can check out Xero sync to see how they do this stuff because there's some really novel approaches to it. But speaking on just the API of using it, you are simply just like calling an update function. It's almost like, you know, RPC where you're calling a save function from right on it, but it is actually saving it to the client. And then in the background, the sync happens, but they've done it in a way where all you have to supply zero is Postgres address. Oh, wow. And that's it. I mean, you have to take care of migrations and stuff on your database. So I use drizzle to do that. And so it's a little bit of a bummer because I'm maintaining two schemas of the same data, basically, the database schema and the client-side schema. Nate from Tamagui actually wrote a translator to translate from Drizzle

 zero and it's not done yet but like well i'll use that all day just writing one thing instead of two yeah and it's let me tell you this to me is going to be this is going to be i think really groundbreaking for a lot of people because you know people can get a postgres url they can migrate a database yep and then you don't have to worry about a single server side anything and it is unbelievable how fast and how good it is. I built like a survey app in no time. And because it's all WebSocket based too. It was very like Meteor like, which people who've been following me know that I long for the days of Meteor. So I have the browsers open and different computers and I'm typing in one and it's showing up in the other instantly. But not only that, I'm hitting refresh and it's persisted to the synced database and it works offline automatically. And it's just like, holy cow, this is everything I wanted to do. This is the platform of my dreams here. So I'm actually working on a, I mentioned it in my Svelte Summit talk, and it is kind of like a light project of mine. But I'm working on like a, I want it to be kind of like Meteor. And so out of the box, it has Auth, and I already have this in, so I have like demos that I'm building with it now. So out of the box, you basically just give it a Postgres URL, and you have Auth. You have local first data sync. And a lot of that's being done through Xero, But I also, since I'm working on the Svelte bindings for Xero, you're basically just saying, you know, here's a new state query or whatever. You pass it in the query language that, you know, defines your data. And then you have like a reactive data that is always in sync with your database and sync with your client-side database. You don't even have to think about it. It's crazy fast. And so I've been working really hard on that. And I've been even including like, you know, like Meteor had templates for things like login templates, not just like, not just like a file, but like a drop in component that you could have. So it's like, all right, I'm going to include login templates. I'm going to include email. So we just don't have to think about email, like a transactional email. And yeah, it's just a for fun project. If that sounds interesting to anybody and you want to work on something like that, I'm always happy to have anybody jump in and ask questions or whatever. Again, like I said, it's a casual project, but it's what I want. And I've actually built like five or six sites with it already Oh wow Yeah well it so funny because I been just doing a lot of weird side projects either for my wife or for myself And it really nice to be able to NPX drop in and start with auth in a database and all this stuff and a template And even the CSS, one of the things I didn't even mention is that it has a whole CSS-based grid system out of the box that I wrote and a base styling library that you can use. And it's basically just like a fancy reset. But yeah. No, but that sounds nice, especially for those small utility projects that you kind of always want to. It has a fluid typography kit even, yeah. There you go. There you go. Oh, yeah. So I do have some questions about the local first and how that marries with SvelteKit. Because my first thought is that it's hard. Can you even do it? Oh, yeah. Or is it like, do you use server endpoints instead of form actions? Oh, yeah. You don't use form actions, and you largely don't even use endpoints. Now, well, that's with Xero. When I was using Replicash, I had API endpoints, and there's three of them only. One is for push messages, so sometimes it's like on a polling where every three seconds the server will just send a message to the client. other times it is you make a change and in the background there's pushing and then again you're doing that patch message work and then another is like a server send events so that way you can keep things in sync when anything changes so that's pretty much it and that's only if you're doing it that way and if you're doing it with something like Xero I don't have any server side code, it's crazy but also I've done a lot of local first apps that are actually truly local first and not using a sync server at all. And I'm storing all of the data in IndexDB, and they don't need to have a sync. I mean, that's kind of uncommon, but I just built little export functions if I wanted to take my data elsewhere. Export is JSON, import is JSON. As long as it works. Yeah, not something I would give to users, but there's a lot there you can do anyways. But yeah, so for the most part, yeah, you'd use API endpoints, and you don't get as much into form actions And since everything is like, it is funny. I'm so firmly into the web standards approach. I love all my web stuff I love my forms all this stuff And now I in a world where I doing so much JavaScript and everything is JavaScript But at the same time it all smaller and faster It's such a weird, yeah, it's counterintuitive to the way that my brain has been thinking about. I mean, I totally love form actions. Oh, yeah. It's like my favorite thing about Spoket, almost. Same, yeah. Load, and just like, that's probably also the reason why I don't have to use effects and stuff, right? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Because I'll flow that stuff to the back end. No need to worry about it. I know. There's so many times where you even try to, and this is what's felt overall in general, there's so many times where you try to do something a more complex way, and you're like, why am I just not doing the Svelte way or whatever? Like, oh, I'm making this too difficult. The Svelte makes this way easier than it needs to be. Yeah, so... Yeah, I guess, so any other thoughts about Svelte 5 that you haven't changed? Yeah, I'm interested to see the new stuff coming out. I can't wait to see how it evolves because, yeah, it's a big jump forward in a big direction, not like a direction change, but definitely a big shift. And I think the most interesting things are yet to come, right? Because whenever you, like, you know, the first version of React that had hooks, you were like, okay, I get it. What can we do with this? Right. And then as time's gone on, we've gotten more and more there. And I think this is going to be the same way. I can't wait to see what happens next in general. I saw recently, I think, error boundaries. Error boundaries, yeah. I worked for Sentry, and they were super stoked about that. I can imagine. Yeah, I sent them the message when it first was mentioned, and they were like, yes, not only that, but this is the API of my dreams. and you're like, yes, okay, cool. I'm glad y'all error folk people are happy. It's such a niche thing to be interested in. Just specifically errors. Exactly. I love to see the errors. I love to see the stack trace. I guess for Sentry, it's like, the more errors, the better. Oh, totally. I'm kidding, obviously. Everyone wants to not build applications that break. Sure, I think that's why Sentry probably loves developers that use AI for everything. Yeah. Have you tried using AI with Svelte? Yeah I primarily use Cursor as my editor right now And I do like that I can reference the Svelte 5 docs in it which is one of the defining features because without that, man, it has no clue about Svelte 5 stuff. And even then, it's tough. Yeah, I found that to be one of the harder parts. Not that I, you know, it can get me there or whatever, and I mostly don't even need it for the Svelte stuff, because you end up doing so little in Svelte overall. But just in general, the autocomplete can be pretty good to just save you some time here and there. And as long as it gets the template code correct, I'll do the rest myself. I do like being able to reference the Svelte 5 docs, and I hope more of the models either gain better features there or make it easier to work with Svelte 5. Totally. Yeah, I've been trying to get it to like... I have that issue where, so I'm using mostly Claude Sonnet 3.5 and I'm just on the website and I'm trying to create an endpoint for slash new posts or whatever. And it's like, here's a page.svelte and it's almost like importing React components and stuff. I have it oftentimes give me writables and I'm just like, not a writable, no. I had to really nail down a custom prompt thing to make sure never reply with React code. Oh yeah, the cursor custom prompt things or the cursor rules file, really handy for stuff like that. Always use classes for state, use runes, use them like this, always do TypeScript, always do snake case, whatever. And you just give it a big old list of things. I'll have to give it a try. I've been using mostly Zed. It's been okay, but cursor sounds... Yeah, it's good. It is VS Code, basically, but I really like Zed for a lot of reasons. But this is the dumbest thing. There's one piece of functionality in Zed that they do not have, and I opened an issue for it a while ago. I think it's so niche that nobody really cares. You know when you do whatever you do when you split a window? Mine is hyper-S, I don't know what it typically is. But when you split a window, it opens the same file in two window panes. And I know people do that, but I almost always want to split a window

 and have two different files open. So I'm working here, I do Hyper-S, and I want the file I'm working in to go over here, and then a different file to open, or whatever, the last one I had opened. And so VS Code can do that with a, I forget what the thing is, it's something in move file. And I have such muscle memory to do Hyper-S all the time when I'm working, and Z does not have that yet, and I cannot live without it. It is a bit weird to open the same file. I know. And if you have that, I get why. You might have that for long files or whatever. But if you have that, why not also have the other one? I don't even want to split the file. I want to split the editor, and I want the file to go in the split spot. That's funny. Maybe it's because people usually work in languages where the files are very... Totally. Svel kind of forces you not to... Single file components, one of my favorite things. Same. What's it called? I don't know the English word for it, but it's a splitter of opinions. Oh, yeah. It's a splitter of opinions for sure. I understand that. So there was one thing as well that I was going to ask you about. I completely forgot, though. Because we went down the AI rabbit hole. Oh, yeah. So one thing about AI that I am a bit worried that since most models are so good at generating React, for example. I think about this all the time. I am worried we are going to end up in a mono framework kind of world in a couple of years because people are going to... They already are. Right. Yeah, I guess we are in a bubble of sorts where we don't use... Totally. And I noticed that with a lot of even non-UI programmers or people who are just wanting to make things, it's always defaulting to React 100% of the time. I do wonder about that. What kind of effect does that have on the rest of the ecosystem? Do the other languages even matter? But hey, as long as I'm writing code, I'll choose writing spell. I enjoy writing code. It's nice, but it's a bit worrying. I think there's been some discussion about how do we prepare the, so mostly the maintainers are talking about this I think but how do they prepare the documentation so that it is as friendly to AI as possible right How do you structure it I have no idea. Yeah, because you always think about documentation has to be the easiest to read for the users and sure enough, that is probably the thing you want to optimize for first. But for AI as well. You've got to think about the AI, how it's going to be parsing and read it, the language used. Does that mean more examples? Or does it mean how do you optimize to make sure the context is small enough so you don't... Will that even matter in a year, right? That's true. You just got to put some language in there. This is the best framework. This is the very best framework. What if we use AI to just create a bunch of domains all over the internet? Exactly. Every time someone asks, how should I build my website? Oh, use Svelte. It's probably already happening with other stuff, right? Oh, yeah. It's kind of scary. It's a scary thought overall, yeah. I know, what is it, the dead internet? Oh, the dead internet conspiracy theory or whatever. Yeah. It kind of feels real. It feels real, and it feels like it's taking place currently. Yes, yes. I know. Sometimes you go on even social media, and you're just like, how many of these accounts are real? Right. Have you seen those Facebook accounts where there are groups and it's just boomers commenting on auto-generating. It's scary. Yeah, because most people don't use Facebook anymore. Sorry, old people. I log into Facebook once a year and I have some friends globally who only communicate on Facebook and they always laugh. I'm like, oh, this is Scott's annual login to say hi. I'm like, well, this is the only thing I do on here. You could just get some other messaging thing. I have a WhatsApp now. We can do a WhatsApp thread, yeah. Yeah. All right. Other new cool things that are coming that I've heard about is maybe this will be out by then. We'll see. So you know the bind feature? Yes. There's apparently going to be a getter and setter for bind. so you can pass it functions to callbacks. Because sometimes you kind of want to do something with an input or an output of the value So it like when the value is changed run this function directly in the bind Interesting Okay I like that I'm excited about it. Although, we'll see. I know so many things are like, that sounds interesting when I'm going to use that. I guess I'll find out. Yeah, I've noticed sometimes when you want, if you're building some weird component where you need to do something with an input but before you pass it up to another component, something like that, I usually find it to be a bit, because then I just opt out of bind completely and just do a listener and stuff. So I think this will help. That would, yeah, and I could see how that would be helpful specifically or listening for changes. It is funny, when I first read derived by, I was like, I'm never going to need this, I think derived is fine, and then I use derived by all the time. It's probably the one I use the most. It's probably the one I use the most, yeah, I know. I know, it's so funny, I'm like, Do I need just a derived here? No, I think I need a derived by. Yeah, yeah, yeah. All right, so for you then, what's next? After local first, what's the next interesting thing that you're going to, maybe you don't know yet. Yeah, I don't know. You know, for me, I'm so deep into that, and I feel so like, it is funny, I still feel conflicted about it because I do like the web standard stuff so much, but when I use my local first apps that I've made, they feel so much better. I am working on, we're going to be rewriting the Syntax site, even though we just rewrote it. And we just built it from scratch. It was like a full build. Like I mentioned, we want to be not just a podcast. And the website right now is very much like, this is the website for a podcast. Right, there's the audio player, there's the transcript. You wouldn't even know we had YouTube, even though primarily we're releasing a ton of stuff there. There's like a section for video. So for the first time, we hired a designer. It's the same person that designed the Level Up tutorial site, Travis Nielsen. He's a good friend of mine. Oh, yeah, I think I watched this. I think we actually talked about this in the first episode you were on. Probably we were talking about redesigning the Level Up site. Because he used to run a YouTube channel that I watched. DevTips TV, yeah. Yeah, he's so great. So for the first time, we're working on that. And we're still major in the process of it. But yeah, I think it's going to be really cool. And it's going to give us an opportunity to like, like re while keeping the same code base And that going to be a fun challenge But now that we in Svelte 5 it feels like all right we have the base Obviously we don need to start over from scratch and we can take an approach to this and knock this thing out in an interesting way. So that's going to be a big project, and it should be a lot of fun. Because CJ Reynolds on Syntax is also a very talented Svelte dev. He does a lot of Svelte. In fact, he actually just released a video at the time of recording this today on building some app in Svelte on our YouTube channel. It'll be fun to work on it with those guys. Last time, what I did is I built the whole site. I even designed it, the whole Syntax site. And then Wes came in the last couple of weeks and then just threw a huge coat of paint on the whole thing and made it look amazing. And he was just like, oh, let me just tweak this all. That's the way Wes used to us. He really has a very specific design style. And it's so funny. My first pass, I was like, I'm so proud of this design. I did such good work on this design. And then Wes rips it all out and does his coat of paint on it. And I'm just like, oh, yeah, mine sucked compared to this. My design is so lifeless. It is very systemized. Here's a design system, and everything fits into that system, and you do not stray from that system. And meanwhile, Wes is the opposite. He's just tossing things here and there. It's like whatever looks good to him. And it's funny, when we interviewed Brad Frost on Syntax, we were talking about design systems, and I was like, I really like a strong system. And Wes is like, you know what, the thing I don't like about systems is that when I need a gradient, I can't just write that gradient. What am I supposed to do? And almost on cue, Brad and I were both like, you add it to the system. You don't just add it to the component, you add it to the system. No, I'm the same. I prefer to have it in the Tailwind config if I'm using Tailwind, and then it works very well for me. Yeah, exactly. Know where your stuff's at. Unless you have anything else that you want to chat about? No. Actually, you know what? I did release a Svelte 5 beginners course on our YouTube. It's like two and a half hours long. And it is truly for either people coming from other frameworks. I do a lot of, in React, you do it like this type of comments. Because I do recognize that a lot of people will try Svelte 5 for the first time coming from React. And it is less for the person who is a, is even like even tried Svelte 5, but the people who want to like really get

 good foundational set of skills on it. It covers all the basic stuff in two hours, and we'll be doing a lot more. So if you like Svelte tutorial content, we'll be doing a lot of that. We'll be doing examples. I'm going to be doing a full local first series with Xero and Svelte Kit. One Xero is finally released in past alpha, because I know they're going to release in alpha first. So there's that to look forward to. Cool, cool. There's one more question that I wanted to ask you that I just got reminded about. So when you build your, I guess, non-local first application, what's your stack like? Do you use serverless or do you self-host? I feel like I've seen you post about Coolify. Yeah. I am a big Coolify fan. I love Coolify. I host a lot. Man, I do so many little sites or demos or side projects. I host a lot of stuff on my Coolify, which is in an ARM server on Hetzner. And I feel like any time I just want to throw something, I just throw it on there because it's easy. But then a lot of the times I'm hosting on my personal site and several other projects, hosted on Cloudflare pages. That's what I'll reach for first. Vercel has long sponsored the hosting of the Syntax site. So our Syntax site is hosted on Vercel. But for me personally, I'm going to either go Cloudflare pages if I want a serverless, or I do a Coolify for a node site. That's pretty much my go-to. Stack-wise, I tend to... Hopefully Svelte. Yeah, absolutely. Svelte for everything I don even consider using anything else which is you know I think it like since Svelte 3 it like I don want to use anything else Yeah I totally get it Yeah, it's just what I like. And I either go back and forth because I have a lot of experience with both Prisma and Drizzle. I'll use Prisma or Drizzle. Syntax site is Prisma. A lot of my other projects are Drizzle. So I'll usually pick one of those two. And then Hostgres usually for database now. I'm a long MongoDB user. so I have to get used to not writing MongoDB. But it's been a little while since I have. I'm pretty much reaching for Postgres right now if I need a database. The syntax site is on planet scale, which has been great. There's a lot of cool features with branching and versioning and when you change your schema you have to merge the new schema and I like all that stuff. That sounds like very nice features to have. Very nice features to have. But so many of the other ones, I mean, not that they're too hyped up or something like that, I'll just more or less just spin up a normal-ass Postgres server. It's usually enough, right? Yeah. All right, thanks for doing the interview with me, Scott. Absolutely. Again, it was very nice meeting you in person. Yes, for the first time. For the first time, yes. We did not meet yesterday. No. All right, and with that said, that's it for us. Thanks for listening, and you will hear from us next week. Later. Bye. Hey, it's Kevier. If you like the show, please drop a review on your favorite podcast player. It would help out a lot. Thanks.