 Welcome to Svelte Radio. Hey, everybody. Every-what-y? Every-what-y? What's that? I don't know. Hello, everybody. Welcome to another Svelte Radio episode. I'm not going to do a retake of that because that was funny. I'm joined by Brittany. Hello, Brittany. Hi. Hey. And we have another guest today. Sam, hello. Hey, Kev. How's it going? Hey, hey. It's going great. What about you? Are you excited? Yeah, I'm doing good. I'm nervous, of course. This is the big leagues. Oh, don't be. No. You're nervous. Come on. You're among friends. Folks chatting is how you should look at this. I do feel like I'm among friends. That's good. That's good. All right. Brittany, what's new since last week? What have you been up to? Not much. Just still fighting with Tailwind and Rails and Svelte and all the things. Yeah. Yeah. All the fun stuff. Yeah. Oh, that sounds like some exciting stuff. It is. Oh, that's one way of putting it. I mean, everything is learning. Like every day I learn something new. So it's interesting. I did learn something. I mean, at the end of this, you will be an expert on this. What did I learn about line height the other day? I learned that you shouldn't use rims and ems for line height, which I did not know because they can inherit funny. Unexpectedly inherit in different ways than you expect them to. So you should either use pixels or percentages or the non-percentage values. Yeah. Because then they do what you expect them to. Because rems go from the root value of the font size and ms go from the parent value. So it might do an unexpected thing if you use rems or ms for line height. Right. So I learn something new every day. Today I learned as well then. I mean I had no idea Yeah exactly Yeah Yeah so what have I been doing this last week I been rebuilding the Svelte Summit website It's starting to become a dynamic website now. So I'm going to start adding all of the old conferences back to the page. Oh, sweet. Which is exciting. Yeah. Almost done. Are you using something as the back end for that? Yeah, just pocket base for now. It's not very complicated. Kev, we talked about the Svelte Summit website last month or two months ago. And you planted a seed for me. And I just rewrote my SvelteKit tutorial. And I used the Svelte Summit website as the inspiration for that. Oh, really? So it's like making a clone of the Svelte Summit website. hmm i mean yeah we saw that i'm coding it and it's going to be uh uh outdated then i mean it's not exactly the same but i was like i really like the svelte summit website it's nice it's playful it like it's you know it does what it needs to do and so it was perfect for uh doing it really is quite it really is quite a basic website right it's it's i think it would be just amazing if you just live streamed this so people could see how like this stuff works oh like rebuilding the the summit yeah the thing is with like doing streams for that is that you kind of have to set it it all becomes a bit of a chore like every time you want to work on it you have to like oh it's time to set up some recording equipment i'm gonna get my microphone i'm gonna do this and that and this and oh you just have to have all that stuff set up I had to just hit play. Like I told you last week, I think it was last week, I've switched my setup, so now it's all like my phone. Kind of mobile and pretty. Yeah, exactly. And it's been working great. I'm still amazed by the quality of the iPhone camera as a webcam. It's actually almost as good as the DSLR and without the green flashing that I've always had issues with. Anyway, that's a lot of talking about the Svelte Summit website and my recording setup for some reason. But let get into the actual show Sam why are you here No I just kidding Who are you Who are you and why are you here What does you say to a burglar in the middle of the night? Yeah, so, I mean, for the purposes of this interview, I am a technical writer at Prismic, and I work on our Svelte integration, so I have some sort of DevRel capacity. um more generally uh i am like a svelte enthusiast i um have done a few small projects with svelte myself um and uh yeah i think that covers it yeah what's your background like do you have you always used svelte since you were born or did you yeah i was doing the 1.0 back in the early 90s Um, my background is actually in journalism. Uh, I was, uh, I did some like feature writing for the newspaper and then I ran, uh, like a website for a magazine for many years doing writing and content management using WordPress. And I hear this from so many people who wind up working with headless CMS is that like they started in WordPress and they just found it so frustrating that they were like, they decided to dedicate their whole lives to never having to use WordPress again. And that's kind of what happened to me. Uh, in 2019, 2020, I decided to do a career change. Um, I was living in France at the time. So I moved to Paris to go to a, to do a coding bootcamp, got to Paris, March 1st, 2020. Um, my wife got COVID, uh, March 12th. I got COVID March 13th in the country when I was going to say that 14th. that was like right at the start of the COVID pandemic, right? Yeah. That was really bad. Yeah, that was intense. That was when we had no idea what was going on. And my program, my coding bootcamp was supposed to start March 21st. And like March 15th, I'm emailing them like, what is your plan? Like, are we still coming to campus? And I'm like annoyed that they don't know what's going on. Yeah. Which just goes, you know, tells you. But I did the bootcamp online. Anyway, I mention all of this because it was actually in the context of doing that bootcamp where I was learning the Mern stack and getting familiar with React, which was okay, but let's be honest, not that much better than WordPress. And there was an article in Wired about Svelte where they interviewed Rich um i read that article and i was like this is what i want it like ergonomic it designed to be really really fast it's just so common sense it's so practical so i did i used react in the boot camp but then um my first goal after finishing the boot camp uh this was like may 2020 was um to learn svelte and then um by happy coincidence i wound up finding a position at prismic which is uh headquartered in paris just a few blocks away from where i was living at the time and in the interview um i told them i wanted to be working on svelte and they said to me look we need to do a svelte integration so you can be our svelte guy so i joined the team as kind of like an entry-level technical writer but um my first month there actually everyone was on vacation because as you know the french go on vacation for all of july and august so i was alone without a babysitter and um my first uh month on the job welcome to europe i love it my first month on the job was literally just learning all of the frameworks that were popular at the time so i like you know did some more react view next next gatsby and a little bit of svelte and then over the course of the next i mean that was a little more than three years ago so So since then, I've been working on our Svelte documentation and then the first iteration of our Svelte library, second integration of our Svelte library. And then now most recently, we have this low-level Svelte integration with our developer tool called Slice Machine. So now we have this very full-featured integration with Svelte, which I'm thrilled about because it means that I get to do all my demos and podcasts like this in the Svelte world, which is awesome. Yeah. that's awesome now you get to use what you love exactly yeah and i heard your unpopular opinion in there you got it in early which one was that that uh react is just marginally better than to be fair i never actually did any php so that is a totally unqualified opinion and by it sounds like sounds pretty qualified to me i did as much php as like if you've ever had the experience of like going, like using the WordPress UI to like go into your PHP files and you're like, how do I change that icon? And you like manually change it. So when I was first starting to learn like HTML, CSS and JavaScript, I felt like I was getting the hang of like,

 looking at those files and editing just some just basic source code. And then I looked at like WordPress source code. What the crap is this nonsense? Like I had no understanding of that. Like it's so different. Yeah. PHP is a beast. I was going to say the same thing, a beast. It's completely different in the syntax. It's just like spaghetti for me. Ugly. yes yes it's honestly it it kind of and this i think this is going to be an unpopular opinion but i kind of get php vibes from rust just because it's also very very very like there's a lot of like characters in there and you have to like try to read it all verbose that's the word yeah yeah it's very verbose same with php also pretty verbose i'm sure we'll get some rust warriors in the in the comments i think they like it because they're only typed or something is that no rust is great for rust yeah yeah that's how you get viewers listeners is with the uh stirring stirring up with the controversial takes but actually my wife is doing a an mfa right now in jewelry that's why britney knows i just moved to italy so that she could do it. My wife could do this program. A Masters of Fine Arts. Oh, gotcha. Yeah. She's becoming a master of jewelry. What is it? A multi-fighter? What's that? MFA fighter? There's an MFA fighter. MMA. Oh, MMA. I was thinking. I was thinking she's that. I'm going to tell her. Everyone thinks that you're a mixed martial arts fighter now. You're gym UFC. but so as part of the program they're doing a web development course and it's like the assignment is like you have to make a website with uh like wordpress.com or squarespace or something but in the introductory classes they're learning they're teaching them html css javascript and php and when she told me she was learning php i just couldn't stop laughing i was like like you're gonna start a small business and the first thing you're gonna do is build yourself a website with php like that honestly that's kind of surprising you would learn web development and i don know why you would do that well you need as a jeweler you need a website But I told her you don need PHP to make a website No, you can do so much with just the HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. Even just HTML and CSS. Yeah, totally. And yeah, just that. But then if you need the interactivity, you can just use the JavaScript. They don't need the PHP. gee, they're just making it more complicated. I'm so angry right now. This is what you find when you leave your perfect Svelte bubble and go into the wider web development world, and you're like, what tools are you using? jQuery? What? Willow, ghost dev in the Svelte community, is going to university right now, and they're teaching HTML, is it four? what's the one we're using html5 right now and they're using the previous version of html in her university class that's fine you know it takes time to update these course materials can't expect them to be up to date because you can't get it for free online no no i think that's impossible they have to do some like uh what's it called when the government takes in a different kinds of offers from different companies oh yeah an rfp or whatever they're still using like blink or whatever mark what is it marquee is that the html oh yeah the marquee tag that's a pretty cool html element though it is and it still works um you can use it on twitch and make things go across um when i was learning to code though i paid less than 20 for any course like yeah i paid like 10 bucks a couple of times for a couple of udemy courses and um that was it that was all i paid for all of my learning to code. It's kind of amazing. Mostly free stuff online, like CS50, great Harvard course, free. You have to pay for the certificate, but you don't need the certificate. Yeah, exactly. There's so much learning material out there now. Yeah. But it would be tough if you had no idea where to start. You wouldn't know where to start, I think, if you're coming from another career. Yeah. All right. Yeah. So let's talk a bit about this Svelte integration that you been doing over at Prismic So first of all what is Prismic Like what does Prismic do So the simplest way to describe Prismic is that it's a CMS. Like to me, one of the hardest parts of building a website is managing the actual content of the website. It's a problem that like no matter what you're doing, you need to figure out how to answer that. And so Prismic is actually one of the OG headless CMSs before the term headless CMS existed. back in 2013, Prismic and Contentful were actually founded at almost exactly the same time with the same idea, which was to do serverless content. And again, this is before even the word serverless was out there, but like do have a platform in the cloud where you can create and store content and deliver it to your application via an API. And in the beginning, um, had headless CMS were build is this like agnostic thing that you could kind of use for anything like you could use it for like digital billboards or your apple watch or whatever your like game consoles and that actually created a lot of problems i think i think probably every headless cms realized that they were spread too thin um and so prismic decided to focus on specifically websites with like modern javascript frameworks. And I think what we realized is that like, if you have a tool that's agnostic and really well-designed, it's actually a really good foundation for building an integration because you have like a really clean API. You have like, it's like really well thought out data structures and everything. So I think we got, we realized we could get a lot more bang for our buck by doing really custom like Taylor framework integrations. So we built integrations for next to next, And then just most recently, we built this integration for SvelteKit. And what makes Prismic different from other headless, we actually call ourselves a headless website builder, because you're not just managing content, you can actually build an entire website in Prismic. And the way we do that is with this concept that we call slices, where a slice is like a section of your website, like a block, you know, like a block level element. So is this kind of like the, I guess the new WordPress editor has, what is it called, Gutenberg or something? Yeah, Gutenberg has blocks. They also have blocks and similar kind of thing In WordPress it a little bit weird because i think like every single p tag in wordpress is a block i think okay so it very atomic in prismic it doesn't have to be that way like you can have slices that are quite big or that have like fairly complex data structures and you can customize them however you want so we have the editor in the cloud and then what we did with our framework integrations is we built this developer tool, which runs locally on your machine. The local development tool is called slice machine. And I think to get to the core of it, slice machine is basically like a code gen tool. It's like, you want to create a new component, click create component, and it generates that in your file system for you or, you know, whatever. And it creates a type script types for you too. So it takes care of, it'll order a pizza. That's on the feed. That's, that's still on the roadmap. um but so it um basically slice machine creates the the wiring the configuration and the connection between the cloud and your local dev environment and then it will create the components for you and it will create them following the format uh needed for the like to consume the data from the api so it just takes care of a lot of the repetitive work and it makes it it makes coding really productive and it also because everything's typed and everything's structured um very deliberately it makes it really really safe so you can have this website builder tool that you can give to your content editors knowing that like it's it's it's very very resilient it's very robust it's probably hard to visualize this on an kind of audio only podcast but we did do a siren stream showcasing some of this and like it will automate creating some of those pieces in the component. So it will like tie all of your API together. It will create the link between the CMS and the local dev environment and then automatically generate that component for you with the API tied in, which is like it was magical. Like I've never seen this like stuff just happen and me not have to do anything. It was kind of nice. Brittany, I haven't stopped thinking about your reaction when I clicked create slice and you were like, oh my God. And I was like, yes, this is why I do what I do. Yeah. I mean, just the developer experience is so important. And when you have to go and create your schema and then you have to tie in that API yourself, it's just...

 It's cognitive overload, boilerplate stuff you have to remember and do. And it's just such a nice developer experience when all of that's done for you. Yeah. I can imagine. So what kind of experience did you folks have when you built this integration? Yeah. What was the difference between building one for React or Next or Nuxt? or maybe you probably didn't spend that much time on those integrations, but since you're this felt person, but maybe you can talk to some differences there. I mean, I can say I worked, we have a great DevX engineer named Angelo Ashmore and we found him because he, in his spare time, was working on our Gatsby integration. And so we hired him and he's done amazing work for all of our open source SDKs. So I've been working with him on the Svelte integration. And a lot of it has been like me doing a very rough version, kind of a back of a napkin kind of thing. And then he takes over and does a much more polished version. But I can say for me doing first a component library. I mean, we don't really talk about this so much anymore, but when SvelteKit was first released, a big part of the marketing around it was like, this is kind of like a like a batteries included component library framework like you can write a component library and then just share it with somebody and and that was really cool so that got me really jazzed so i used that as kind of like motivation to build um our for the first version of our component library and you know i have written plenty of react and next and view um and personally i mean it's kind of if you've written svelte it's probably and you like svelte it's why you like svelte it's because it's just so literal right um that's what i found writing it and i was looking over um the components some of the components are really really simple like um if you have an image in prismic you mostly just need to like inject the source and then like add maybe like a width and height and stuff. So it's like very simple, but like when rich text comes from Prismic, um, it's, it's formatted in a, or stored in an abstract syntax tree. So there actually some some uh complicated logic to serialize that all into a string So we have a Svelte component called Prismic Rich Text which takes that abstract syntax tree and iterates over all of the children and the grandchildren and all of the italics and bold and everything and strings it all together. So you're one of the few people that have actually used Svelte colon self then. I am, yes, exactly. no i'm sure a lot of people have used it but it's not something you have to grab that often no you're used that often but when you do have to grab it it's like wow this is so literal like i can see exactly what it's doing as far as recursive programming goes it's a very nice interface for it yeah i i once did a a talk i think it was at the end of 2019 on so i compared to React. So I did a Hacker News clone where I compared React and Svelte. So I did a super, super simple implementation. And the recursive stuff in React was very confusing to me because I don't even remember how you would do it, but the Svelte one was much easier to grok. Yeah. And I was doing a comparison, looking at our React rich text component, and it did kind of like make me dizzy right away. I mean, I'm not a huge programmer. I'm like, I'm better at UIs. But yeah, I like that part. For sure. And another thing with, if it's React, it's usually like you have five different components in the same file and then you throw in some recursiveness in there and then you're like, what is even happening? Like, it's very confusing. Yeah. Yeah. So yeah, writing the component library was really nice. And then, I mean, also, of course, we wrote documentation. That's always been pretty enjoyable because this felt, particularly this felt kit, like data fetching and everything is pretty well thought out and pretty prescriptive. So I've always enjoyed it for that reason, because it's pretty straightforward. most recently though with slice machine we actually architected slice machine which again is the developer tool to have a plug-in system so the core of slice machine is agnostic and then if you want to use slice machine in next js you add a next js adapter and you just plug it into slice Machine And then the adapter tells it like for example if you click the Create Slice button, the adapter tells it where that slice should go and what the boilerplate for the slice should be. So as far as that goes, I was talking to Angelo, who worked on this, and uh it actually wasn't i was like so it doesn't sound like you actually needed to like do like um integrate with svelte that intimately because it like it's actually svelte is well thought out and slice machine is well thought out so there actually wasn't isn't that much interaction what the what that package does is it um will like create some files it uses like just strings to inject some boilerplate into those files. It handles, it has some Svelte specific code in it. Like it suggests code snippets for certain things, or it has like templates that you can use for certain things. And then obviously it needed documentation and some like, we have some like example starter projects that you can use to start with. But all in all, I mean, I think it's probably a testament to the fact that Svelte is well-designed and also a testament to the fact that Svelte's machine was well thought out, that the integration, I think, was pretty straightforward. Angela said that when they actually got the okay from management to build the Svelte plugin or adapter for Svelte's machine, it took two or three days. Oh, wow. Yeah. That's fascinating. That's very fast. That should tell other companies that are thinking about making Svelte integrations to maybe have a look at building Svelte integrations because if it's that fast, then there's no reason to not spend a couple of days doing it. Yeah. But then, of course, it's also about... Absolutely. Yeah. Yeah, I was just going to say. And that is where there are some things where we've been trying to figure out what's the best way to do it in Svelte. There's still a fair bit of boilerplate. um we have so like it would be nice if there was a way to simplify that um i've been kind of thinking wondering about like what a svelte plugin system might or a svelte kit plugin system might work might uh look like um there rollout plugins there vt plugins Vite plugins And a lot of the other frameworks out there also have plugins Gatsby has a plugin system. Nuxt has a plugin system, which is, you asked about the difference between integrating with SvelteKit and integrating with Nuxt. And that is a huge difference, is that in Nuxt, you just put in a few settings in the Nuxt config and it takes care of like tons of boilerplate and it does a lot of stuff magically for you. So I'm kind of fantasizing about what that might look like and how that might simplify the integration. Yeah, it feels like a lot of people want some kind of, at least middleware is what I've heard a lot. It's not quite a plug-in thing, but middleware for the back-end endpoints where you can just attach things like an authentication function. I mean, you can already do that, but something that's a bit more official is what I've heard. So you're wanting to go middleware into spell kit stuff because like we are plugging to beat. So like there is that side of things where you could just do a beat plugin, but you want this spell kit stuff specifically. I mean, I'm not quite sure yet. I mean, part of the benefit of a plugin system is that it tells you what to do. And I've done, I've done a lot of experimenting and kicking around. Like at one point I tried writing a rollup plugin to like automatically inject components and it was just so convoluted. I was like, this is a bad idea. If it's, if I'm fighting this much, I shouldn't be doing it. Like some examples, we're currently trying to figure out how to implement previews, which is where like, if you have something that's unpublished in the CMS, uh, in the cloud, um, we actually have in just like vanilla JavaScript, we have like a pretty simple mechanism for how to access that based on a, based on a cookie. and it works almost automatically without having to do much configuration. In Svelte, it almost works except if your web pages are pre-rendered, then that creates a trap. So I'm trying to figure out how to do that with a hook. So I spent yesterday writing a handle hook to do this, and I actually came up with a pretty good implementation where it like sends you to a different section of like a preview version of the website using the hook. And then it switches to SSR. But we're still asking,

 users to to write a ton of boilerplate yeah either either add the handle hook from some package and then yeah yeah exactly and so like that would be one example where like to be able to just do that hook automatically would be really nice yeah well that makes sense so those are some some missing things then uh are there other bad stuff that you run into that that's the bad stuff i mean i'm sure svelte has bad stuff i just haven't ran into it at all but of course um what is some bad stuff that's a that's actually a really good question and i can't think of much there are a couple things in the documentary i thought i should open a pr in the documentation for um like for instance um the page store i had this happen like twice where i ran into a bug with the page store because i don't think it maybe i missed it but i don't think it explicitly said in the docs that page has to be prefixed with a dollar sign right i i guess it's i guess since so i i think the the documentation says that it's a store and i think people are i think they they assume that you will think that it's a svelte store but that's not that's not probably not have assumptions right yeah uh so so that speaking from a technical writer right yeah and even even stuff like like there should be i haven't looked in the in the in the documentation for a while but there should even be probably an example where you use it as well yeah where you see the prefix and stuff yeah i mean i did figure it out pretty quickly so it could have been that big a problem but that's not a problem as well like i said i'll probably open a pr in the docs or something for that. Honestly, I think it kind of would make sense to, at least in development mode, to have a compiler warning to say that, like, are you, is this actually what you wanted to do? Log out the set update and subscribe methods? Or did you actually want to use the value or something like that? Yeah, totally. We usually have really good compiler warnings. I've seen a couple of bad ones We have another one When you use the incorrect name or default version of a component from like a component library it just spits out this inexplicable SSR error And every time I freak out and I like have to look it up and then I find this old issue and I'm like, oh yeah. And eventually I'm going to get the pattern and realize that, oh, I used the wrong one. But it's like, why is that error so awful? Like, why does it not just say, did you use the wrong name import? Is that the one where like, if you import a named export as like a default, then it'll say like a such and such is not like a valid component. And it says error SSR is not a valid, or it's not a valid SSR component. Yeah. Yeah. I've, I've banged my head against that one a lot. Yeah. And so all you have to do is like, take the curly braces. off and it works magically. And it's like, why does that say like anything about SSR? Why does it not just say like, maybe you used the wrong import? Yeah. One thing that I've, um, that I've spent a lot of time fiddling with, and there's probably a philosophical explanation for this, or like maybe like a long GitHub discussion about it or something, but, um, handling svelte components in javascript is one place where like react and jsx definitely has a leg up like um if you want to programmatically do stuff with svelte components uh it wouldn't be so hard if you were just doing it on the client or the server but because they're different by my understanding they're different apis um it gets very messy or maybe even impossible very quickly so I've banged into that in the Prismic integration and also in personal projects I think there so in React you wouldn't have to do this but in Svelte we need the Svelte colon component to solve stuff like this and it does get a bit tricky I think as well yeah definitely something I've ran into as well Yeah. Just kind of what Thomas was talking about with melt and how you can't pass things into children the same way either as you can and react And it sort of along the same lines because he was saying runes might help this where you can use the same things on the client and the server because we can't use the same APIs right now between like JavaScript and the Svelte files, but the runes might actually allow us to do that and allow some of those things. I'm not sure it's the same thing. I think this is more about like being able to, like in JSX, for example, You can do, let's see if I can explain this correctly. So say you have a component called button. In JSX, you could actually just do a string and pass in button, right? That would work. That's not something you can do in Svelte. You would need to pass the button into the Svelte colon component thing to get that working, I think. Does that make sense? i'm also trying to think like i've run into this on my blog where like i'm trying to get like a list of blog posts um and it gets like i'm querying them in javascript and they're like using empty specs they're like markdown files that are getting compiled to svelte and then i'm querying them in javascript and then trying to like work with them in javascript and it yeah i can't remember what exactly but like i hit walls there very quickly yeah i think that that is similar to that as child thing because that is like a component and you can use like the svelte component but you can't pass a string in so it's it's different than you have to do it in react but yeah yeah let's let's see what they'll uh they'll cook up for svelte 5 maybe maybe we'll see some some cool stuff there maybe but i mean in general i mean i feel bad now that i've been complaining because like in general it's been it's been really pleasant And I also like work on our forum and like on our support channel. And we had very few problems with Svelte. And when we do, they're usually pretty straightforward to debug. So it's like, it's kind of a, kind of one of the situations where no news is good news. You know, it's like, it seems like it kind of just works. Yeah. I mean, that's, that's hopefully what people are experiencing as well. what are you excited what do you think is missing in Svelte what would you like to see in Svelte 5 is there some feature that you would love to see For me this is a really tough one. I'll say something that I don't think is going to happen. Data fetching in React server components is really, really nice. When I saw when I saw what that looks like, I thought, oh, they just made data fetching actually easier in React than it is in Svelte. Interesting. I haven't used React server components. Yeah, I haven't. How does that work? Well, I think it's only possible because it's only happening on the server. So it's kind of a cheat maybe, but it's like, you can literally just do an async. You can do like an async expression in your component. But how does it get passed to the client if it's only happening on the server? Okay, so this is where my ignorance kicks in. It's like I don't think it can render on the client. It has to be server rendered and then passed to the client as like a static thing, I believe. Right. And if you want a component with client-side reactivity, it can't be a server component, I believe. Ah, interesting. from my from for my use cases i rarely need client-side reactivity yep i'm kind of like going back five or ten years in web development to like how do i do static stuff how do i do stuff that's not reactive i just want server rendering yeah yeah it's it's uh that's it's also i think a a downside of using Svelte, like you send all of the data and it rehydrates all of it. Like if we could improve that a bit in the next Svelte. I think that is some of the stuff that they're hopefully working on is how the hydration and the compilation works between the components and how it scales the components is what I'm looking at. Because I know right now we have a problem with scaling how many components in an app. Like at scale, sometimes that can get very large. I think, honestly, I think that's, it's just something that people read and never run into. It is, but I think it is actually an underlying issue that they've talked about. Oh, yeah, of course. It is a problem that is...

 But it's maybe not as inflated as people lead it. Yeah. I think it's a, for me, it's more of a marketing issue than an actual, like, performance issue, if that makes sense. Yeah, it's not a huge performance issue. It's just, it is something that needs to be addressed. And it sounds like they are addressing it. So I'm looking forward to that. Yeah. And some, like, it's what other frameworks can point at and say, oh, look how bad it is. Here's what you should use, X instead. But I mean, as far as, you know, the success of Svelte is going, you know, Svelte is still growing like crazy. Like it's not, and it's still, the speed is still very competitive. More realistically, I would say if we could see a plugin system in, well, I guess that wouldn't be in Svelte. that would be in SvelteKit. SvelteKit, yeah. But if I could see a plugin system. Yeah. Of kit, yeah. That would be my Christmas morning. All right. Any other things that we should chat about with regards to the integration or thoughts? No? I don't know. I don't know. I feel like that was really, really interesting. Yeah. Awesome. Then if there's no other, do you have any questions, Brittany, before we move on to the next section that's called Unpopular Opinions. Ooh. Yeah. And Anthony is not here. He always has an unpopular opinion. I've seen him on Twitter lately just replying to all these folks about cars in London or something. Firing off on people, yeah. Yeah. He's always on something, yeah. And it's always like to the, what's the prime minister call it? It's Rishi Sunak, I think. On Rishi Sunak's is like, we are improving this by doing this. And then there's Anthony in the comments always like, yeah, look at what you did here. It's pretty funny to see. I just followed him on Twitter today, so I'm excited to see. Oh, nice, nice. You see a lot about biking in London and roasting of the prime minister of the UK pretty much I lived in the UK for two years All right Yeah I actually have an unpopular opinion today Go for it. Tell us. Tell us all about it. My unpopular opinion is that meetings are not work. I think that they can be work and productive, but most of the time they are not. And they're a waste of time. Especially when they take up an entire day. Yeah. That didn't sound as bad. If they're not work, why are they so hard? Why are meetings so hard? They're like exhausting. I think that's just like being on camera. It's exhausting. And so like if you're on camera for your meetings, if you're remote and talking and cognitive stuff is just like exhausting. So I think that part of it is exhausting. I don't know. I think they're just mostly time fillers and time wasters. And I think they can be productive if you make good use of them. I just think that they should be short and sweet and get to the point and only what you need done. Yeah. More meetings should follow the stand-up philosophy kind of. Yeah. Just be super short. And then also probably most meetings would do good by having a hard limit on the time. There is something that happened this week where we had a Slack thread to try to avoid a meeting. And I would have rather just had the meeting because the Slack thread did nothing to help things. So a 15 minute meeting would have avoided like a week of us just waiting on people to respond. so in that case a 15 minute meeting would have been fine and now i have a 30 minute meeting tomorrow instead of the 15 minute meeting it probably would have saved us on monday but so there are times where it can be there are also times where it's just a waste of my time and day where i get no actual work done yeah but it's still still work I told you I was going to fight you on this one I know I disagree sometimes like half the time maybe half the time you know what this signals to me what I hearing is that Brittany you like your work Oh I love my work And you feel like when you in a meeting it taking you away from the work that you enjoy Yeah. And I have a problem stopping my work. I will do my work. If I'm by myself and I have no other choice, I will do my work. I will go sit in a restaurant and work because I love what I do. And I love building. I love the design system stuff. I enjoy that and I'm very passionate about it. So I'm kind of a workaholic in that sense. And I like that stuff. That's nice. I don't know if my family thinks that. Yeah, it's a hard balance. My girlfriend works too much as well. From my point of view, it's not nice, but like she thinks it's fun at times. at least. So it is what it is. Sam, do you have an unpopular opinion? Yeah. Okay. The web is 30 years old, right? This year? 1993? Wow. It's 2023. Sounds about right? Yep. So freaking weird. My unpopular opinion is that by 2030, we will have reached... web 2.0 what does that mean what does that mean like 15 20 years ago everyone was like web 2.0 like the web is interactive now right but from my perspective it kind of failed like interactive web is like not that real and what i mean by this is like if you are going to tell your parents or something how to build a website like where would you start them like probably you'd start them on some like platform like wordpress or something which isn't real like it's kind of a website but it's not like you're writing code that you own it's more like a social network it's almost like you're making a facebook profile or something because it's so contained but like if you wanted to make your own website it would be really hard if you even if you want to use felt kit you have to figure out node and git and like at least some basic html and css um and for for kit in particular you need to figure out like what adapter you should use yeah right that that another extra there like a lot of things to learn I kind of wish there was a built kind of just publish button that would publish your static site to, I don't know, some Svelte server somewhere that has a banner on it. I mean, it works. Like with auto, you can publish to Netlify or Vercel automatically with that. I would want it to be built in into the CLI or like you would just like run NPM publish without doing anything. And it would just put up your site. And you can if you have like the Netlify CLI, you can do that. But you have to know that stuff. It's still like pre-knowledge you need. Yeah, yeah, yeah, exactly. I think that's where Sam's getting. All of that is just to publish a website. And then think about like, if you wanted to create a website with comments from scratch, like I'm not even going to try to do that. Cause like, I hate figuring out databases, you know? So like I envision a world where like, I could like, I could help a family member set up their own website from scratch with commenting easily. And that to me would be web 2.0. I feel like we're getting future reality. Yeah. Especially with ChatGPT and similar tools. I've been using that a lot for database stuff, writing queries. I think that things like Squarespace and Builder.io, those tools are kind of coming a long way in creating a website. And I think you're right. In a few years, those tools will have come farther to help with creating. but Kev I also have something to say to you with so at the end of like most of my siren streams I haven't done it lately but I used to like use the github cli I pushed to my repo and then I used the netlify cli and I published my website in like less than five minutes I've got a new repo and published website so I mean it's like clis are amazing but you have to have that knowledge Brittany, wasn't that on our stream? The GitHub CLI is what I use, but I didn't publish the website with the Netlify CLI. No, you did because you published it on Netlify because we needed it published in order to do the live previews. And I was like... But didn't we do Vercel? Didn't you say, can you publish it on Vercel?

 cell in like two minutes and i was like i don't know and i'm like i haven't used for selling a long time and i opened for sale and i just did it all through their gui instead of the cli because i didn't have their cell i don't really use for sale that much because i have a distinct memory of you typing in a command in the cli and deploying a website and i yeah that was the github cli it like made me like no that's my workflow i mean not like for everything but i started doing it myself so that was uh the gh repo create will create a repo for you and then um but you have to like add and do all the other stuff and then you have to push your repo and then once your repo is up on github then you can go to versell or if you have the netlify cli then you can just use the netlify cli i don't versell must have a cli too but i don't i'm sure Yeah, they do. Or use it. Yeah, they do. Yeah, it's very nice. Netlify has Netl NTL, and you can NTL publish. NTL deploy. NTL deploy. I haven't used it in a long time. Maybe I'll start again. Our documentation sites on Netlify. I haven't used any of these tools. Oh, I love CLIs. That's my pick. CLIs are my pick. All right. Yeah, I just like I so I think I've talked about this a bit on one of the earlier episodes, but I've been moving away from renting a dedicated server to actually self hosting it myself at home for society. Maybe I haven't actually talked about this. But yeah, so I like to be my pick. I like to tinker. Oh, that sounds so painful. Like these services are, they're free. You know, I'm going to, I'm going to talk about another project that helps you with this. So, okay. Yeah. Go for it. I don't have an unpopular opinion, so maybe I can go for the first pick. All of your opinions are popular. A hundred percent. Okay. So I have two picks. One is called Coolify and is an open source platform as a service kind of thing which is something you install on a server So this is what I installed on my server at home And it lets you deploy applications It's kind of like a self-hosted Vercel or Netlify in a sense. Obviously not as polished or doesn't have all of the features, but you can basically... No, cool-efi. I know. No, I'm saying it's coolifier than Netlify or Vercel. Oh. I'm just trying to be corny. Right, right, sorry. But yeah, it works great. You can just put in a Docker Compose file, add some environment variables, hit Deploy, and it just gives you a website. I just pushed up Analytics for Svelte Society, for example, using Plausible. Is it free? It is free. They have a serviced, like you can pay for it as well. But that's, so that makes it a lot easier. You still have to bring your own server. So that's just for the, basically what they do is they give you the GUI on their server and then you can add servers onto the Coolify instance, if that makes sense. I'm just going to use it for one server so I don't need to do that So if you're running your own server how does the speed compare? Yeah, so the server I bought is basically faster than the one I rented on Hetzner so I think that one cost me 40 euros a month-ish And then this one was, I think, 600 euros total. Wow. And it's faster. It has more memory and more disk space. And the downside, obviously, is that it's on my home connection, right? But you were paying before to rent one, and now you've just paid it outright straight. Yeah, exactly. The downside is obviously that I'm running it at home on my own connection. Constantly. Yeah, it's been going down a lot recently. So the other thing is that these services are content delivery networks So they are around the world servers and you can put them in one location right But they also like put them out at the edge if you want And so your users may be closer to that server. So your server is in your house. Yep. I've thought about this though. So This is really a pretty solvable issue. You put a CDN in front of it. The data fetching has to happen close to the server anyway. So it has to go somewhere to fetch the data. How do you put a content CDN in front of it? So the simplest thing is just put Cloudfire in front of it. It's basically just a button that you hit. I mean... It's very fun to do. When I was trying to think of an unpopular opinion earlier, the first one that came to mind was like, you might not need SEO. And I feel like when you're talking about like CDNs and hosting and stuff, like you really are talking about page speed. And like page speed is mostly for SEO. Like that's kind of why we've become so obsessed with it in the last 10 years. um but like if seo is not a top priority for you like for instance the svelte summit website the only keyword it really needs to rank for is svelte summit and it's going to no matter what so like it doesn't like page speed is not necessarily the most important factor for that website so which means that like hosting it on a box in your closet might be fine what uh what's your reasoning for not needing seo um well there's a few things one most of the time when we're talking about seo we're talking about like really competitive seo like if i want to rank for like new york cars then i'm gonna need to be really really competitive on like page speed links optimizations and stuff but if i want to rank for prismic like that's actually gonna be pretty easy because I am Prismic. Well, let's put it this way. What about a CMS? Prismic, Contentful, Sanity. How do you rank against those? And in that case, it's very important to have a really competitive, that's a very competitive SEO. But that's only one marketing strategy, right Not every business needs SEO as an inbound sales channel And you might like we kind of I think we have a bit of FOMO like oh we need to be selling on Twitter and Facebook and Google and radio and stuff But like, if you can do one channel or two channels really well, then you might be able to forget about the other ones. So like maybe your channel is word of mouth or maybe your channel is like literally local radio stations or something or flyers. And then like, you might I need to worry about SEO and you can have like a slow, old, ugly website and that would be fine. Yeah. I do think focus is important for some business. So like focusing on like what your customer base is, like finding that and focusing on it. I will say on the contrary, while SEO might not be important, accessibility always top priority. SEO is not important for our website. Our website is private. It's not rankable on Google. It's a private because you have to log into it. So it's not important. Yeah. All right. My really quick second pick is commit AI. If you're lazy like me and don't like writing commit messages, this is the thing for you. This sounds like a bitch. It really does, right? It's like an AI tool that analyzes your commits, like the files in the commit, and then writes a tidy commit message for you. Interesting. Yeah. So I've been trying this out, and it's quite nice. It's called Commit AI? Commit, like you're committing, and then AI, yeah, I think. Cool. Double check. That's me. who wants to go next cool um i have a pick uh i was looking at the state of css survey which came out like last month and actually i had to check my search history like i had to do a double take because like the day before literally the survey came out i was searching for um css frameworks and i was like oh still no css frameworks that i like and then the next day the state of css came out and it mentioned open props as like a new up and comer. And, uh, I checked it out. I really like it. I like it because I like writing CSS. I don't like tailwind and, um, right. What do you call it? Is that an atomic CSS? I can't remember. Utility plan.

 I mean, Atomic is one way to call it. I don't like utility classes. Open props is more of a, it's also utility based, but the utilities are in variables instead of classes. Yeah. Yeah. And so you can use the variables like very similar to the way you'd use normal CSS properties, but they're like really logical. They kind of encourage you, they kind of like encourage you in a certain direction. And so I've been using it for about a month now and I've kind of gotten used to it. And yeah, just really, just a really nice kind of pleasant experience. It was created by Adam Argyle. They actually have a Discord server. I used it on the Salt Cyan site before we converted it to Skeleton. I really liked it too. I think I like ergonomically and for DX and speed, like I like Tailwind a little better. I think that it's, it just makes me faster. And when you're creating a component library where everything is just scoped to that one component, like having the tailwind classes in line is not ugly. It not as ugly as like seeing them all over your code base because the components you don see those in the components and then they extracted in the API because then you just using them as props So it not like as bad Okay. It's definitely, what's it called, a dividing? It's a love-hate thing, yeah. I like being able to write my states and my media queries in my class. like that increases my speed tenfold just being able to do hover colon or focus colon and then like large medium small whatever or mobile colon and then write my i think you're right that's that's probably the the actual selling point of tailwind yeah like being able to to do that yeah never thought about that all right britney what's your um my pick was the clis um i guess If I have to pick one CLI, GitHub CLI is really cool. I love it. I use it every day, all the time. Well, not every day, because I don't push a new repo to GitHub every day. But I do really like it a lot. And like every Siren stream, I use it because I create a new repo. But Netlify CLI is also really good. I like using it But any CLI like When you using the GHCLI do you use that for your commits or do you use Git for your commits I use Git. I guess I didn't think about using the GHCLI, but maybe I should look up what that is. I don't even know if you can. You probably can. And maybe I should. But what would be the difference? Like how much shorter can it get? Well, you have to write like git add dot a and git commit dash m. And so, I mean, it could be like GHA or GHC. And then you could just type. That would be amazing. I don't know. I don't know what the actual letters are, but I'm just guessing what it could be. and like our Svelte create command, our Svelte add for Tailwind, like that kind of stuff. It's just, it's such nice developer experience, stuff like that, that makes me happy. Yeah. Developer experience is everything. Yes. It really is very nice. It is. Okay I think that is that is all for today uh sam where can people find you i on twitter sam l fair uh and if you want to see what i do check out prismic prismic um if you want to try it out we have a demo of the editor that you can access from the home page of the website i think it's prismic.io slash try and otherwise if you want to try out prismic with Svelte. Um, there's a best way to get started would be to, um, create an account, create a new repository and choose SvelteKit. And then there's a demo project that you can try out and it'll kind of walk you around and show you the ropes and stuff and you can see what it's all about. All right. Exciting. Thanks for joining us today. Um, it was super fun. Thank you so much. It's always great seeing you. Let's do this again sometime. Yeah. And for everyone who's listening. Thank you for listening again. You managed to get through this one hour of banter with us. It was a lot of fun. And we will, as always, see you next week. Goodbye. Later. Bye. Hey, it's Kevier. If you like the show, please drop a review on your favorite podcast player. It would help out a lot. Thanks.