 welcome to spelt radio i want that spelt cake oh there's a svelte cake you know is this code for something the one that they posted in discord the other day it's like the svelte logo and it looks like it's chocolate on the inside it looks so good yeah yeah where can I get myself one of those should I get one for for a svelte summit yeah you should get a few like a huge svelte cake yes it just needs to one by one meter lay across the table yes each letter each letter is a cake and you serve one letter at a different time of the day and yeah yeah why not why not all right so if if you're not aware of uh what podcast you're listening to it's uh it's felt radio we're back once again uh this episode we're going to talk about stores custom stores regular stores it's a stores galore episode and as usual i have my uh my co-hosts with me britney anthony and sean hello hi everyone hello we're so energetic today yeah it's very hot outside a couple of maybe actually maybe maybe most of us are looking pretty tired today yeah i'm i am i am tired i've been working all day and then i've prepared a uh i'm preparing a presentation for the meetup that I'm running tonight. It's about Svelte Cubed. Oh. It's my first time playing around with Svelte Cubed. Are you showing that on the YouTube channel too? I don't think it'll be recorded, unfortunately. Oh. Maybe we can do a Svelte Sirens stream or something with that. Yes, that would be. I can do the presentation just for you on the YouTube channel. That would be great. So what have you guys been up to? Work, work and more work. Oh, it's like last week. Yeah. Who would have thought Well this this week it kind of became even worse because I was I was doing sort of releases that took so long to release because they were quite you know a lot of day migrations and stuff that I had to do them late at night which is not something I've done for a very long time. I do believe in continuous delivery and releasing whenever and ever, but these are big enough that we need to have sort of not quite downtime, but certainly things would be very, very wonky for a while. So I had to release them at night. And, of course, it was me staying up and doing them. So, yeah, it really has impacted my ability to do anything else during the day. Yeah, that makes sense. Did you run into any issues or did you? No, it was very smooth, actually. Very smooth. It's one of the benefits of keeping QA identical to production is that I was confident it would all work and it went really well. There was one weird, I say an issue, it was just a weird oddity. And it was that migrating my production database, which has the same data as the QA database it's just the QA database has all the personal information removed it took longer, it was significantly slower and they're both the same they're on the same kind of cluster not sure why that happened so I don't know, maybe we'll never know The mysteries of computer science Yeah, well it's upsetting to learn that my production database is slower than my QA database that's for sure Yeah, it should probably be the other way around, right? Yeah, exactly Yeah, alright Brittany what have you been up to yeah just been super busy I feel like getting my footing at work and after all the streams last week I had six streams or podcasts last week so after that week I'm just now kind of trying to find like where do I fit in at Nellify like what what do I have to do what are my responsibilities so getting some blog posts and things written this week and slowing down a little bit I want to do more streams though so I need to figure out like where I can fit these at yeah cool cool nice sean what about you are you traveling again no i've been uh very very stable just uh actually i just visited stripe singapore today and it was really nice everyone's kind of they basically only do lunches at the office and then everyone works from home so that's pretty awesome so they go and get together for lunch and then they can go back to their own place Desks. Yeah. So basically they have a restaurant. A very expensive restaurant that doesn serve food I guess or does serve food maybe I don know Yeah I don know And the food is really good I mean, I like to see that because this kind of thing is kind of common in New York and San Francisco, but not so common in Singapore. So I do like to see that. I think the other thing that maybe people have been seeing on my Twitter is that I've been complaining about JavaScript. Not really like React's fault. It's just more about build tool. build tooling. So I have a friend who's working on a side project and he's a very experienced Go and Java developer. He's a senior staff engineer at Google and Twitter. And then he wanted to spin up a React dashboard and he wanted to use an open API client that happened to use a node built-in module or the node url module and because create react app had upgraded to webpack 5 it just gave him a really bad error it was just like i don't know what the hell this url thing is here are five different ways to resolve it none of which you can use because you're using create react app and he was like i don't know what to do so he wasn't able to fetch uh data in a in a basic react app. The first thing he tried to do after spring up, he had this crash. And I was just like, man, I don't know if this is like a good thing. Cause this sort of thing is taken care of in other ecosystems or just not a problem with other ecosystems. And I helped him fix it, but it was too many steps and I wasn't proud of it. And I don't think it was a good use of anyone's time. So do you think getting rid of create react app or actually like improving and evolving create react app is the solution? So one of the problems is that it doesn't let you edit the webpack profile, right? Like it's, it was just web upgraded webpack five was dropped node. Like we all understand why like each of these individual decisions matter, but imagine if you are not a full-time JavaScript person and you just want to get going. Imagine if you're trying to just use the recommended tools, the basic stack that's in the docs. And then you run into this kind of error. And your day is ruined when you're just trying to be more productive, right? Bad developer experience. Exactly, it's the developer experience. So the error could be better We could have an option to polyfill it because performance is not an issue Like there all these other options available but you needed someone like me to come in and do it for you or you'd be completely screwed. So I don't think, essentially what I'm, you know, my reflection is, I don't think we're doing a good job of serving the non-JS crowd and a non-developer crowd. Like I, cause I just, I just don't think this is productive. It's a fair one because we saw the exact same thing with a brand new Nux app just the other day we're just studying how the routing works and it also would not launch it had some error that you would know if you're a JavaScript developer but if you were just a person who'd come from the language you wouldn't recognize it and I think it was a to do with dependencies not being pinned down correctly or something but in their own CLI's creation a brand new bare skeleton app and just wouldn't run and as part that discussion ben mentioned that actually he'd seen the same thing uh back in the day when we started the app he he ran it at a time when it had a similar issue it had a dependency issue or whatever it wouldn't work and it's funny because every single mainstream language probably has the same exact issue and someone was reporting that ember did the same thing the other day so it's uh yeah it's certainly it's not any specific language or stack or anything else it's it's across the board, we probably need to have a better job of having what you consider a stable, you know, bare bones app or skeleton. Right. Right. So, you know, I think our error messages need to be better. And then also I was just thinking about like, maybe we've had just a hard version. So, you know, like you would understand if a library that was built for Python 3 was not compatible with Python 2. So I think basically what we need is JS3 versus JS2, right like there's this ecosystem of newer packages or updated packages that are compatible with all with like es modules and like no node build-ins that all the all the new standards that we come to expect and those are not expected to be compatible with js2 so maybe we should do that but i also don't know how to do it would that be a warning would that be a warning thing or would it be a it's like a everyone would signal or everyone would be able to you'd be able to analyze the package, whether it's compatible with JS3 tools. And if you're using JS3, like anything using Webpack 5 is JS3, anything using Vs is JS3, you cannot expect. So this is about messaging, right? This is about telling people.

 should you be able to expect to use this package with this other package? And it's really not that complicated. There's just a set of expectations that the more modern tools have that make them incompatible with the past. And we just need to make it easy to see. Yeah, I think it's a good idea. I think it would solve a lot of problems, but I don't think it would solve all the problems because at least two of those scenarios weren't related to ES6 or non-ES6. They were different things, but it would certainly be a step in the right direction. my concern is people not fully understanding the standards and producing something that claims to be JS3 or whatever but it's not actually JS3 because just because it has some of the kind of traits doesn't make it actually compatible so you'd have to have almost like you know an official meaning of what this meant and somehow get a good idea to that maybe yeah you could probably do that sounds like a lot of work though like getting everyone on board and like it's almost like a security audit isn't it because that happens right it scans the packages and says this has xyz issue yeah maybe we should just maybe we should just do it like make a repository and just have like approved packages it's just a github badge isn't it a million times it's a github bot rather that goes around github and scans packages and then you gives them an award. And then you maybe, maybe you try to convince the package managers that they should warn if you're using, installing like an old package in a project that's, I don't know, this is an impossible thing. That part's easier. That part's easier because, you know, you do that in NPM, you do that in PMP, you do that in Yarn, whatever else, you know, you just, you do it there, you know, read the spiel or whatever and says it's valid or not. I just think people might end up fudging it. Yeah. Better error messages and warnings are definitely good, but I think we have lied to our listeners and we have derailed the conversation. 10 minutes in, we're going to get back to custom stores. Yes. Oh yeah. That's a good idea. Yeah. That, that, that was the topic of the day. Yeah. Yeah. All right. So have you guys heard about stores? No. No, you can buy all sorts of stuff in them. Um, no, I just kidding Uh Yeah so stores are a concept in Svelte It of uh i guess you could call it a state handling solution um but a very bare bones one you can uh you can put all sorts of fun stuff in them you can implement what's that one uh react thing that everyone uses yes redux i was gonna say remix but that's another another thing or mob ex mob ex yeah yeah or easy peasy is one i used or um what's that stories one like react something rather redux saga no i have no yeah donks and all the other things that go with redux yeah so uh yeah store generally stores are just a A way for handling communication between components, or rather, I guess you share a state between components is probably a better description, right? A global state. Yes, yes. So we have a couple of built-in ones in Svelte. We have the writable, the readable. We have a derived one, and we also have a spring one. Are there any other ones that I've missed? I think those are the ones. I should know this. is there a specific spring one i'd actually didn't know that yeah there is so so let's let's go go through them so a writable store is what you'd use to when you want a store that you can write to so you can update it and uh whatnot a readable one is you set you set the value ones and inside of the store you might run some logic to update it as well but you can't update it from from the outside if that makes sense and then we also have a drive one which depends on other stores and then we have the is the spring one called tween that's probably it right or is it are those different i don't know they're separate so spring basically lets you emulate spring physics and so for example whenever you want to reach a certain value you might overstep it for a bit just as a principle of animation. And in tweens, it lets you precisely go from A to B. So either you emulate the physics of a weight and some kind of spring resistance, or you have a definite set time that you trying to go for something like that There a really good Spring Svelte demo somewhere isn there There is With all the animations We should link that somewhere. Absolutely. Yeah, so Spring is pretty nice. The tweened one is, like you said, Sean, go between two values. Smoothly between two values, I guess we should say, right? Yeah, those are the basic ones, and those are everything you need to to build a svelte app i guess but then there are also i i'm sure like most listeners know already what stores are and how to use them at least the basic ones but they're also something called custom stores or i guess stores that follow the the store contract but have additional functionality. And they're pretty nice to work with. You can add functionality that works well with whatever you're trying to do. Maybe you have a calculator app and you want to add, like the example in the Svelte tutorial or the examples page is pretty much account store where you have an increment and a decrement and a reset mode. So you can just call those methods and then you increase the value by one or decrease it or reset it back to the original one. So yeah, there's different ways of doing a custom store, isn't there? Because that one, for example, is augmenting it with new methods that are convenience. Yeah. I think one of my favorite ways of using a custom store is to have a different storage backend. So stores only store within the browser. They store within the context of the application. But a store that maybe every change that's made it persists to local storage or session storage is really useful. And then, of course, there's another way you can use a store, which is the way I use it for the notifications component, which is to use it as a queue. So you put something in it, there's something described on the other end, and every time it gets a value, it's pulled off the other end, operated upon, and then the store is reset to having no contents. Yeah, stores are fun. And you mentioned different storage, I guess, mechanisms where you wanted to store your values. You could have a custom store that saves to a database or calls an endpoint that saves to a database I guess makes more sense And keeping in sync with a back-end. But yeah, so I think I would say they're pretty underused generally for a lot of newcomers. Often you only see people use the writable store and they just put everything in there. which is a bit scary. I've seen some examples where you have a writable store with an object with 600 methods inside of it and 500 attributes. It's very hard to reason about. Do you generally split up your stores into smaller ones or do you just keep one giant? Well, not giant. Yeah, I tend to have... It depends what I'm doing. If I've got some config that kind of read once, sorry, write once and read many, I'll use a writable store for the user data that they can change. I put inside a writable store. So I've got one readable, one writable. And then I end up with two stores and I tend to put them in an object. And the reason I do that is because then I can pass that object to, if I need to, to set context or get context. Yeah, set context. And then I can get context later and get those two stores out. That's pretty smart. I think. What about you? One thing that struck me about talking about writing to APIs from a store, if you were setting this up from scratch and you have a, I know like a page with a bunch of fields on it that writes to an object or modifies properties of an object, for example, a user's profile, if you've got that API inside the store, writing all those changes to the database in real time, that's a really nice experience because you don't have to worry about sick at all. You change those properties, it updates, you know, it calls out to the API to update the database, but the changes are already within your application. If you refresh, that store gets repopulated with the latest data. And what it gives you is a way of real-time saving data, but then on top of that having, for instance, a derived store that's watching that store that can do things such as trigger like a saving indicator or loading indicator, whatever else you want to do. And also, because it's a store, you can update values across your application no matter who they belong to, where they're created, what files they're in, because it's a store that's reactive. Yeah, that's probably not something we mentioned,

 There's built-in syntax to use the set method, I think it is, in Svelte. I think that's what happens under the hood, at least, when you use the sugar syntax. I've dreamt of building a super complicated general fetch store thing that just does what you just said. It's pretty hard. And it's like most applications are different and it's hard to build a generic solution. See, I'm going to disagree. I don't think it's hard. I think actually it's really easy. I think the hard bit is making sure your APIs are good enough for that to happen. I know mine aren't, right? They're just not. They're not resourceful enough. They're not truly rest. And I think that you really need that. if you've got that sort of very clear predictable and consistent api writing a store that's generic that just knows this is this is the name of the entity whatever these are the fields that are within it just keep them in sync i think that'll be really easy yeah yeah so so i guess the the hard part is is making it work for all of the different apis that exist right sure because the the data has to look in a certain way, right? Wasn't this kind of the topic of the Svelte Summit talk Scott Beal did on tackle async behavior with Svelte stores? Oh, I haven't rewatched that yet. I should go watch that. That's a good, yeah, we should link that in there. Yeah. I think one example of this done well actually is, I think it's ActiveRecord in Ruby. I didn't talk about it yesterday for some reason, but that does a pretty good job of abstracting over an API so that you're just keeping some objects up to date and the whole quid side of things is done for you yeah it's a nice experience yeah all right yeah so how do you make a custom store like what's the what's a bare minimum custom store it's just an object right that follows the the store contract and that that means it should have a subscribe method and uh i think that's it right well yeah there's this there's three methods on stores right the set update the subscribe, I think. That's the writeable one. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, for sure. So I think you actually only need the subscribe method, and it needs to return an unsubscribe one as well But yeah So the way you make a custom store is basically you just you return an object that has those methods pretty much or the subscribe one and whatever else you want on it. Yeah. The way that I've done it most simply is by having a regular JavaScript class. Within that class is constructor. You create a store, it's a regular Svelte store and you destructure the functions you want off it and then return them. And that's basically it. Yeah, pretty much. All right. So I just realized something. I just realized that there are no docs for the custom store on the main docs. What is that? Yeah, I agree. That's weird. I know there's an example for the custom store. so maybe there's an example yeah as you saw an example um the the docs do mention about custom stores but they describe it in a way as you just do this contract but no one really understands what that means like yeah that's it's simpler than it's made to sound it's definitely i i think that should probably be expanded on in some way yeah yeah i think that makes sense yeah but i mean so So we mentioned stores, and they're generally used for application-wide state, right? To store maybe a configuration file that you need in multiple places, or maybe like the regular example is the cart store that you add items to in an e-commerce application. Yeah, the stores are global state, so they are across the entire application. Yeah, but there's also another way of using stores, which is to create like a store generator, a store factory, I guess you'd call it, where instead of using it to share a state, you just extract logic from your components and put it in a store. and then you just use the store instead. So that way you can reuse the logic in different places and you can have your components look a bit nicer. So I've got a couple of different examples of these. So I've got like a toggle store where you, that a super simple custom store It just toggles between on and off or true or i guess but it it a nice way of having a toggle probably not something you do in a real application but there are other examples you could make a fetch store that handles different states of fetch for you and so you could have you could have a data property you could have a status property and an error property i guess and instead of having to rewrite the fetch for a bunch of different places, you just write this once as a store and then you import it into your component and use it there. I think this is a pretty underused way of using stores. Yeah, they're very flexible. I think the name store leads you down a path of storing data. That's kind of what I think. but they're much more than that. And it's almost as if you give them multiple aliases. Like I said, you know, we use one as a cube and it's great. It's a great cube because you just kind of, you can shove multiple things into it. You just had a push method. And then when it's all free to raise a render, it pulls off what it needs to and executes on them. It's super useful. For sure. Like, I guess the way that we're talking about using them now, So as one-off state or logic extraction tools is kind of like how you would make custom stores and, sorry, custom hooks in React. Kind of, but not really. But yeah, it's pretty neat. Combine it with actions as well. The best feature of Svelte. Yeah. I feel like I need to plug some libraries. So if you're, for example, if you're using stores for fetching data, you might want to check out some work that other people have done. And Svelte Query seems like the most advanced one of those that I've come across. And it's just got a whole bunch of, you know, APIs that you might find useful and features. Yeah, it's a really nice, like, there are a lot of stores out there and they're all very good. Well, probably not all of them, but a lot of them. this like orbit circle on their homepage is incredible on the spelt query homepage it's like circles of people that use it oh oh the sponsors one there yeah oh yeah wow yeah that pretty cool not i guess sponsors not uses it i said the wrong thing that a lot of sponsors for this yeah it really cool what really oh okay hang on no this is oh oh this is for tanner yes yeah exactly oh i see so this is for the guy that made made it all right okay that makes sense because that almost looks like more more more sponsors than svelte yeah probably not speaking of of of the svelte uh sponsors or or the the open collective what's going on there anthony it's a this is a bit of a tangent that's a fact um the open collective what's what what is going on there what is going on there yeah nobody knows what is what is going on there it's just just a bunch of money need to do something with it well i know but It's hard to know exactly what to do with it. It's hard to, you know, you pick something, you allocate a bunch of funding to it, and the people who didn't want that thing are like, well, what about my thing? And, you know, it's difficult to find a good way, but there's definitely some ideas coming to fruition that will help us allocate funds to the right place. I think one specific one that came up recently is a discussion around providing a bounty for fixing certain bugs or picking a new feature that is wanted and then working on it. The issue with that is that people are trying to claim retrospectively, and that's not really how it works. We have to kind of agree a price up front as if it was like a contract work or something. But that was certainly something we're interested in, especially since given the popularity of Svelte now and the things people actually want to build with it. There's a lot of issues that we don't necessarily have time to work on, But if someone wanted to work on it, they could come forward and provide a good outlay of how they want to do it. Then we could discuss effectively paying them to do it. So there's definitely ideas afoot. We just haven't, there's nothing, nothing has happened just yet. Yep. Makes sense. All right. Cool. Back to stores. Yeah. So Brittany, you have a list here. What's this? Oh, yeah. I linked the tackle async behavior with Svelte stores because I didn't know where else to put it. And then I have one on persisting a Svelte store with local storage. I did it a couple of years ago at Svelte Summit, maybe in 2020, like at the...

 fall one where it was like just posted on youtube so it might be a little outdated but it's just persisting the store to local storage so you can have some data in local storage so it's not too complicated yeah that's a nice feature i like uh jacob's uh store that he made or the it's also like a local storage thing and works with svelte kit as well which is pretty neat So I guess if you're making a store that needs local storage, you'd need to handle that case if you're using SvelteKit, right? Since it runs both on the server and the client. That is a good shout out. Yeah, I was wondering with the fetch one too, how that works with endpoints and if you're using it in the load function, how does that work? Yeah, yeah. Well, I guess it should work. right? Maybe it doesn't. I don't know. I should try. All right. And Sean, you have a bunch of stores here. Yeah. So I call this project the Everything Store. Just my own list of stores that I would like in the future. It's not an active project so don't get too excited. So the first two stores are I think something in the line of what Anthony was saying. The word store implies that you're storing data, but actually you could just use it as a way to subscribe to things and set up subscriptions to things. So what if you could subscribe to your breakpoints or your window width changing and being able to set breakpoints and derive state off of that? So the breakpoint store is really good. And then more generally, anything in the media query could be used as a store. So, for example, dark mode or orientation, landscape versus portrait, anything like that. And you'd be able to respond to that inside Asphalt. So just having pre-baked stores for that makes it really easy to start making your app a bit more responsive in the JavaScript side of things, not just CSS. If that's something that you need. In practice, I don't use it often. But I think when I do, I always find out that I have to go look up the MDN. and now I can just import a store instead. Yeah that a pretty good use case Yeah And then another one that I use on my personal site but I haven published a store for yet is the route query params store Basically whenever for example you typing in a search in the inbox or you filling out a filter it should basically be persisted to the URL with the query params and when you copy that and you paste that in a new browser or you send that to a friend, that should just rehydrate into a state on the new site as well. So I think all that can be wrapped in a store and subscribed to and written to, and it should be easier. So I hope that becomes more of a pattern. That sounds actually super useful and like a pretty nice user experience as well. Like, I wonder if you could have it just like somehow get all of the values from the page and like do it all automatically. I assume you have to kind of do it manually at the moment. Yeah, you should do it manually because like not all the values should be serialized. It would make for a very ugly URL. But, you know, just the big ones that you want to filter on or search for, put that in the URL. And then, you know, when people send that around, it would just naturally hydrate without you doing any extra work. Like the store would do all the work. Yep. That makes sense. So, yeah. Again, this is thinking about stores as a way to sync things rather than a way to store things. There's also XState store. XState is just a state machine library or state charts library. And, you know, being able to do state transitions across the app, I think there's a very natural sympathy there. Is there already a state machine store out there? I'm pretty sure I think someone's built one. Yeah, so there was a guy that made one at Svelte Summit, I think last Svelte Summit. Yeah, let's link that. Maybe that was, yeah, it might have been just like, it was a state machine library, but I think it had stores. There's xstate, Svelte, it's at xstate slash Svelte. Yeah, so the one I'm talking about is, let's see here, what's it called? It is called, I'm scrubbing the YouTube video here, Svelte FSM. So it's a finite state machine. Yeah, cool. I going to link it in the Yeah let help users find that and evaluate it But I think these are all just super useful I have one last one which is what if your store could survive browser refresh? So in other words, it's stored to not just local, maybe local storage, maybe indexed DB. So we talked about that already. And what if it could survive, what if you could be synced to a database in the cloud? And what if it could work offline and then when you went online, it syncs back. So essentially, there's a lot of engineering that you could sync into this to make a full offline sync engine, including showing optimistic updates or the status of something that should be synced but was entered in while offline. I'm probably also going to try to write a super-based store because that's just my backend of choice now. Yeah. Nice. Sounds like a fun store. So yeah, and quite a useful one, actually. I've not used Superbase, but certainly having a store interface to it would solve me having to actually learn it. You don't need anything other than Cloudflare nowadays. They have everything. SQL, they have... Well, everything's in beta, so you have to... Yeah, that's true. Well, so, you know, one thing, I do think that we do need either the local storage store or the Optimistic Sync store because... So I spun up a new SvelteKit app recently, and the SvelteKit app has a to-do program on one of the default pages. It's very slow because it waits and simulates a full API request before updating the sync every time you click a button or do an action. I think it actually does an API request and saves. Yeah. Yeah. But it was very slow. No real app would do that. you would have to do. Like imagine, you know, having to wait like a second after every click for the UI to update. It's just very slow and I don't think it shows off in a good light. So I think we should have this store. I think it's caused some confusion too because if you deploy it, it breaks, right? I didn't even know that. Yeah, we need to figure that out. Yeah, seems like a problem. Yeah. All right. Anything else about stores? that we missed um no all the listeners are now uh store experts that great don even have to try writing one they just experts now that good all right i guess we move on to uh unpopular opinions and we gonna hear from anthony of course yeah okay i'll just pull up my popular opinion because i have so many i have to just use a list of them and make sure i'm it's start up controversial enough yes so this relates to a tweet that I saw floating around somewhere, probably on Twitter, given past experience. It said something along the lines of, and it was by one of these people who owns a startup of some sort, and it was along the lines of, basically, don't spend your time in a startup building tests, build features. It's the only way. It was very dogmatic. It was just like, you know, this is the only way to do a startup. Don't write any tests. Just gungo the whole thing. And I'm like, well, no, I don't think that's reasonable. I believe that everything needs tests. Now, granted, there are things that you definitely need to test and there are things that you probably should test, but you could probably skip them. There were a lot of replies on this tweet about, you know, if you're writing 1,000 tests, you're not delivering, blah, blah, blah. If you're a perfectionist and you need to run these tests, you're going to fall behind. Tests are going to save you in a longer run. If you expect your startups to succeed, you're going to thank yourself for writing tests in the first six months in the first 12 months rather than just like shipping a prototype it's succeeding then you panic trying to rewrite it or trying to do something else that's when you're going to slow down you're still losing your capacity advantage whether you lose it at the start or whether you impact it not lose it because writing tests doesn't really slow you down if you're doing it well but if it impacts you at start it's equally going to impact you after a year or after two years or whenever it hits you and you've got no tests and your site starts to get unreliable and your product stops working for customers that are paying you money. In my experience, it's been much worse. So I believe that all startups need tests. It's just maybe being careful about what you test, where you focus your testing, and how you write those tests. Controversial in some circles. Sorry, what are you saying? What if you hate writing tests? then you need more practice. Because I'll tell you what, I'll tell you what, people can hate writing tests, but I'll tell you what I hate and that's debugging things in production. Because that's actually hateful. The site going down at three in the morning

 that's hateful writing tests is a pleasure comparatively it's a pleasure anyway for me but yeah you know especially compared to that it's definitely a pleasure sounds like you like uh seeing those green check marks i do i like that is satisfying i like having confidence that my software goes out with any issues i haven't introduced any issues it's just it's a great feeling all right i have an unpopular opinion i don't know if it's unpopular but here it goes So I'm currently working on a pre-rendered SvelteKit app with a separate backend. And it's not fun. I want to just use the endpoints. Let me use the endpoints. But I can't for reasons. Okay. I was like, what are the reasons? No, that's the reason. I can't use them. I'm not allowed to. But it has to do with content delivery, CDN stuff. They want the application to be available all over the place, but I can't use Cloudflare or Resil or anything. The backend has to live on AWS. You probably heard my rant last week about that. so basically they want to have their cake they want to eat their cake but they don't want to have their cake right well i i think it it's it's because they have all of their other stuff in aws right yeah makes sense for them yeah aws's dashboard is not great but aren't like netlify built on aws so everything is everything is on aws yeah well yeah but it it not inside of the AWS billing thing right Yeah yeah yeah I don't think it's anything other than that. It just simplifies for, I don't know, if they want to set up more database servers or whatever it is that they might want. Yeah, you have to assume these companies have a bunch of infrastructure. They have a bunch of scripts that build infrastructure. They have a bunch of roles, IAM permissions. everything's managed in one place and if you go then try and divert it somewhere else then obviously that's a huge issue for them because they're managing two platforms instead of one um it's unfortunate and it should be easier than that than that and i think that there's definitely a the ability for somebody to say you know it's okay to have multiple platforms um let's do the thing that makes the most sense for the what we're building but i can also understand that's in itself controversial say yeah this is one of the problems with the jam stack in a sense is that there's so many best in class products and you have your stuff put so across so many different things that it's hard to get all of that into one place and i think companies like uniform and builder and those companies are trying to kind of bring those pieces together but not quite there yet yeah well so that's that's my rant anyone else have any any rants or opinions no i think sean already did his in the beginning right the react one or sorry not the react one the the bad user experience for for non-js people yeah coming to JS. All right. Picks. Picks I go first Stocks are on sale On sale I love yeah like in quotes on sale It is bad out there. It's bad out there. You know, when there's blood on the streets, that's when you should be trying to buy rather than when everyone is buying. So yeah, you know, obviously we're heading into a recession, people getting laid off at the same time as Amazon and Microsoft are raising the salaries for software engineers. It's just a very confusing time. But I think for those people who may not have invested too much in the market and feel like they've missed out, I think actually this is the time to start making a mental list of what you're trying to invest in and then not trying to time the bottom. just investing in over a very dollar cost averaging over a long time. And that's something I've been talking about with my family and some friends as well. I actually completely agree with that. Yeah, it is a very good time to get into the market if you have not previously. As long as it doesn't go down more. It's going to go down more. But the point is, you're never going to wake up at the bottom and just go all in on that one day. So don't even try. Dollar cost average, like you said. Exactly. Yeah. All right. Anyone else before I go? Okay. Yeah. So I didn't have any Siren stream scheduled. And then I got in touch with Prismic. And I'm very excited to do slicing up your Svelte site with Prismic. So Prismic does the slices. That's a little different than some of the other content management systems that are out there. So I'm excited to do that on Friday. And then the most exciting one next Friday with Danny Sandoval about the story behind the unofficial Svelte newsletter I am so excited to hear like all the inside details on this Yeah. So the unofficial official one, right? The unofficial official. Yeah. All right. Cool. Anthony, do you have one? Yeah. My pick is we've just bought a Muskmobile. A what? You know, a Muskmobile. A Muskmobile. What the hell is that? A car handled by Elon Musk. He got a Tesla. Oh. Yes, Tesla. We haven't got it yet. It's coming, but I'm going to pick it when it arrives. Muskmobile. This is a pre-pick. I had never heard it called a Muskmobile. Yeah, that's a new one. So I guess you can't pick it when you actually get it then, just so you know. You can only pick something once. Okay, well, then I'm going to pick the real name of it. Fair enough. All right. Yeah, I don't have a pick. So I'm going to pick ice cream. Your pick is your meetup. You're going to in a movie, right? Yeah, that is true. But that's like, people are going to miss that. I don't know. Yeah, so yeah, go to meetups. Meetups, that's a good pick, right? Meetups are fun. And then we're going to schedule a stream with Kev to come and talk about Svelte Cubed. Yes, yes, because I'm doing a presentation on Sveltecubed. We'll see how it goes. I'm not an expert in Sveltecubed, and the documentation is what you would call... Sparse? Yes. So we'll see how that goes. And yeah, I think that's it. Anything else before we sign off? No. No? All right. Cool. Happy Sunday. Thanks for listening, everyone. And we'll be back next week with another episode. bye