 Hi there. So in this video, we're going to set up a very simple example with Supabase and SvelteKit. So what is Supabase? You can see right here the open source alternative to Firebase. It's similar to UserBase in that you don't really have to set anything up on the backend. It's just given to you automatically. But I'd say Supabase has more features. Basically, you can do whatever you want with it. It's just a little bit more complicated than user base but it is pretty cool it's in beta still but everything is working well as far as I can tell so let's get started let's first add super base to our SvelteKit project okay so here I am I just have the skeleton project and if we come here to Svelte add you'll see there's an option for super base right here we're gonna click on that and then we'll run this one right here so right Right now it's under Josh Nuss, great guy, but eventually it'll probably just be Svelte Add Supabase. So for now though, we're going to run this here, and yes, proceed. And what that will do is add an .env file right here, and then in our lib, it will just set up the client for us. Okay, so all we care about right now is these two here, vt.supabase.url and anon.key. So this is the simplest way to set it up And we have these two here but we don really care about them We just going to do these two So where do we get these two things Good question So we come back here to Supabase and we sign in And I've already signed in, but it'll probably ask you for your GitHub. And then once you're in here, you'll do new project and then give it a name and then a very elaborate password and a region that is closest to you. and then click next and that'll take about two minutes to set everything up so i already set it up here let me click on that and you'll get this dashboard here cool so now we come to api because we're trying to get those two keys and here they are so we got a superbase key this is the client key and we have superbase url this down here is the service key which is super secret and it is different than this one. I was confused at first because they start with the same letters but they're different. And this is super secret. This has to be like hidden in the background, in the back end. But this here, this is a public anonymous key. So it's okay for people to see it. So we're going to put this one right here in vt.subabase.anon key. And you don't need the quotation marks. And then here's super base URL. It's kind of a weird word to say super base. and put that right here And that will just pull it in here from the end and get it all set up for us And we have access to this variable to do cool things So let me show you. It's just going to be signing up. So right here, if you scroll down on the main page a bit, they've got some examples. So Svelte add already did all this. Well, we did this part, but anyway, that's all set up. Now we just have to run this function here. So let me come to index.svelte and we're going to script tag. Actually, I should have just done this. Script tag and then import Supabase from lib slash db. Okay, and then let's put this in a function, an async function. Sign up and paste that in there. And let's just create a button, sign up, on click, sign up. Okay. So let me use an email that I actually have access to, Svelte Dummy. And we'll console.log, big user, and an error. Hopefully there won't be one. And then we'll do npm run div. Port 3000 occupied. Maybe I already have it running Let me get rid of that Let me just Okay So here we are Let open this up So let me show you first that authentication users. We don't have any users right now, but now if I sign up, hopefully this works. Cool. Now we get this user back at SvelteDummy at email. Oh, whoops, I messed that up. It should be gmail.com because I have access to gmail.com. But if we come here and we refresh, we now have a svelte dummy at email.com. But I just changed it. Let's try this again. Okay, cool. So now we have someone at gmail.com. And then you'll notice I should get an email up here. So come back here. Refresh. Okay, now it's at gmail.com. And then I come here. Let me also refresh. Here we go. So we've got to confirm my signup. Otherwise, I won't have access to the database, at least with this default setup that we have. So I'll confirm my email. And cool, it brings me back. And now I have access to data. So I'm not going to do that in this video, but you can play around with this. Next steps would be table editor, basically add a table. And then you can come here and create a record, read a record, that kind of thing. But I'll do a video on that next. So that's all for this video, and have a wonderful day. Bye.