 Hey everyone, welcome back and let's talk about how to use global state with Svelte 5. So we used to be able to use stores, which I think everyone really loved, but if you've been working with a really big application, you can know that that can get a little bit out of control. And so we have a new way of dealing with state globally. And so in our example here, we're just kind of using that state rune, nice and easy. We have an increment function expression, and that is tied to an onclick handler. So as you see, everything's working properly. But if this state needs to live outside of the component hierarchy, what we can do is we can kind of tuck it away in a svelte.js file. And you could just as easily use a .ts file, but I'm just gonna use JavaScript for this example. And what we're doing is we're creating a function here that's gonna return an object. And so I have just a getter, and then I also have an increment function. And so what we're going to do is we're going to invoke that function and we're going to immediately export it. And so this is going to allow us to use it in different parts for application. And so what I'm going to do is let's just go ahead and comment this out. We're getting some errors right now, but we're going to fix that. So I am going to import counter from and we going to import that from global Now what I going to need to do now is I just going to have to update these So this is going to be value and I just going to put counter in front of this. That's all we need to do. So let's go ahead and increment this accordingly. And if we go back to our global.svelte.js file, you're going to see that we're essentially creating a closure here and we're creating a closure with the state rune. So the beauty of this way of doing it is not only that we have more control over what we're doing essentially, but we actually just get to use the state rune at the end of the day, which is great because if we were to do this or, or manipulate state just in one file or one component just by itself, we're also just using that state rune. So we're not having to use two different pieces of syntax, which is really nice. But I think in certain situations, you may really miss that writable store just because it's so easy and you get off the ground up and running so fast. But this is a really consistent way of doing it in Svelte 5. And I think for a lot larger applications, this is definitely the way to go. So I hope you got something out of this video. If you did, go ahead and give us a thumbs up and I will see you in the next one.