 Hey everyone, welcome back and let's quickly talk about using environment variables in SvelteKit. And there are really three groups. We have dynamic, static, and we can also use Vite. Now, if you want to use Vite, just know that if you do expose something sensitive to the front end, you're not going to get any errors. So there's a lot of safeguards when we use it, you know, the first class way in SvelteKit, but it's possible. So it's good to know. So this is how you're going to use that environment variable. And the only thing you really need to know here is that you need to prefix it with Vite. Now, I don't recommend this way, but just know that this is available to you and there's maybe some, you know, circumstances that call for this. So just keep that in mind. Now, let's go ahead and hop into, you know, how SvelteKit is going to handle environment variables. And the first one is the dynamic path Okay so the docs read this module provides access to runtime environment variables as defined by the platform you running on So I necessarily you know haven used dynamic environment variables, but just know that this is available to you. And we're not going to cover any examples here because mostly you're going to want to be using static environment variables. This is kind of what's most common here. And we have two types. We have public and private, obviously. And if we just go ahead and hop into our example here, you're going to see that we have an environment variable message and the value is just hello. We're keeping it as basic as possible. Okay. Now we're in a plus page dot server dot TS file. And I have a whole separate video if you want to kind of go through all of the file types in SvelteKit. And so if you are familiar with those file types you going to completely understand this And we inside a nice and easy load function We doing basically absolutely nothing We focusing in on those environment variables And what you need to know is that if you do not prefix these environment variables as public, then by default, they're private. You can go ahead and type private in front, secret in front. It doesn't matter. If you do not prefix with public then it's going to be considered private which is great okay and so here we are let me go ahead and just save and great we're we're accessing that environment variable and we're just printing it out okay but what happens if i go ahead and let me just kind of take off server here so it's just going to be a plus page.ts file you're going to see we indeed get an error and that's going to read cannot import a private variable to the client side And so that looking good That exactly what we would expect And so for us to use this we going to have to call it public just like this Okay I going to have to update this name to public. Okay. And I'm also going to do the same thing here. Oops. Perfect. here we are and i gotta change this part right that's kind of the important part all right so now that we have this we are all set again so remember the major takeaway here is that when we're using you know svelte kit modules to work with environment variables and not veet we're gonna get those safety messages which is awesome it's just guardrails for us at the end of the day. And also we need to prefix public environment variables with public in the name. So I hope that you got something out of this video. If you did, go ahead and give us a thumbs up and I'll see you in the next one.