 Here's a quick word from our sponsor. Vercel is the platform for front-end developers, providing the speed and reliability innovators need to create at the moment of inspiration. Founded by the creators of Next.js, Vercel has zero configuration support for 35-plus front-end frameworks, including SvelteKit. We enable the world's largest brands, like Under Armour, eBay, and Nintendo, to iterate faster and create quality software. Try out Vercel today to experience the easiest way to use Svelte. Welcome to Svelte Radio. Hello, everyone. Welcome to another episode of Svelte Radio, the premier Svelte podcast online, the best one, probably the only one, but I like it. It's ours. I am joined by my beautiful co-hosts, Brittany and Anthony. Hello. Hello. Hey. It's been a minute. Yeah, it's been a while. What have you guys been up to? I went on vacation, which was really nice. Beautiful Southern caribbean that that sounds awful oh yuck it was just amazing i'm missing it right now because it is freezing here for some reason it is supposed to be the most beautiful time of year the only time to live in michigan is like this time of year and it is all of a sudden freezing again so i don't know my mom visits and this is what happens so she's here right now and just ban her bad weather with her so i think you should just ban her yeah i'm coming then it'll always be nice it's the opposite over here we have we have like a heat wave or something it's it's 27 degrees celsius so that's 80 80 fahrenheit i think which is which is very warm for us right very warm for you uh yeah i would say so yeah can't you see i'm all red and stuff from the sun two weeks ago and that was that's a little warm for us so 90 fahrenheit is like a little too yeah we have the same it's about 30 something I think and it too hot it far too hot how that bill for it can we can sleep at night hey yeah right now here oh yeah it so cold yeah that sounds awful um all right so uh today we have two guests with us and we're going to talk about svelte lab so i'd like to welcome antonio and paolo hello hello hello hello how are you on hey how's it going yeah pretty good i guess It's a bit of a rough period for me because I am super busy, but it's good. All right. Cool, cool. So you two have worked on this project of yours called Svelte Lab. But before we get into that, so the short of it is that it's a REPL. But before we get into what it actually is and what we actually do with it, Maybe we can talk a bit about who you are, where you're based, where you're coming from. What's your background with regards to Svelte and, I guess, web development in general? Okay. Yeah, I guess I'll start. So, yeah, I'm into web development since 2017, I think, when I learned about it in university. and I learned how easy it is to build UI with HTML and CSS and got really excited about all the possibilities. And then late 2020, I wrote an article on web components and learned that Svelte is a really nice option for creating web components because the syntax is so simple and it's been a love story ever since. and yeah, super huge fan and just love working with it. Yeah, so in Svelte 4, we're actually getting even better web component support as well. So that's great for people that are interested in that. Actually, using less web component APIs is better. Yeah. Yeah, I am into web development actually from 17 years ago because it all started because I like to play RPC games and I used to play by chat. So there were these wonderful websites built with PHP where you can chat and build your world And it was very cool And I learned a bit of HTML there back then And then a friend of mine said, okay, want to build one or one of those play-by-chat website? And I thought that HTML was enough. And I said, yes. And then I discovered that it was not what was needed. but instead of just say, okay, we can do it, I decided to start to learn. And so I got into university and I actually left the web development for a bit, maybe for the better because basically I skipped all the jQuery, the Ember.js phase and I come back when React was popular and I started to look into React view. and then I saw the talk where Rich presented Svelte 3 and the moment he said it was a framework that used a compiler it was like mind-blowing for me because it's such a powerful idea and it blew me away that no one else ever think of that and so I fell in love with Svelte because it's also very similar here to HTML and it's very powerful in my opinion. And now basically I use Svelte for every side project and soon for work too. Oh, nice. All right. You built this very cool project called Svelte Lab. How did that come about? What inspired it? What started the idea? It was all Antonia fault. No, it's because when Svelte Society announced the hackathon, Antonio said, who wants to team up? And I said, me, because we actually kind of know each other just by interacting with Svelte Twitter, because, again, we are both Svelte lovers. So, for example, we made Advent of Vue in Svelte using the Svelte REPL. So we both are very lovers of the Svelte REPLs And so we started to brainstorming what we could do for the hackathon and I had this idea because I always love to just whenever I have to do something I want to first do it in isolation and it was perfect for Svelte component because we had the repl but then as soon as you start to add something like navigation it was not that powerful And so we started to brainstorming this idea of a repo that can run SvelteKit and tailored towards SvelteKit. And also the timing was perfect because there was the recent release about Web Container API and Notebox by CodeSandbox. And so we tested a bit and decided to go to the WebContainer API and then we started to build the actual project. Yeah, so this might be a dumb question, but where do you actually start when you're building something like this? Because it's a fairly complex kind of thing, right? Like you have to combine a ton of different features. yeah so basically it's a lot of wiring up different parts that do the heavy lifting we just glue everything together in my mind so we use the web container api to run node in the browser so that's also what stack blitz is using and also what the learn.svelte.dev website is using so we run veed and svelte kit inside your browser and then we basically just glue it to a file tree and editor. We use CodeMirror 6, so we can also use it on mobile. And then we also just plug in an iframe where the web container site is running, and then you basically have it. Paolo did the proof of concept in like one afternoon or something. It was really crazy. It was, yeah, done. I mean, it was a proof of concept, a real proof of concept, because it was basically just a text area a bunch of divs for the console, and an iframe. But actually, the Web Container API is pretty powerful because obviously under the hood, they are doing a lot of crazy things that I don't even know. But the API surface is very small. It's very minimal because you can mount

 some files, you can spawn some process. And so you just run pmpm-create-svelte and it will just create the project inside the web container. You can run pmpm-dev to launch it and then you get the iframe URL from them. So obviously, again, this was a very basic POC. and then we started to look at a lot of things that an editor kind of required because, for example, the ability to write inside your terminal, the ability to even just some minuscule things like, for example, the fact that if you run a command and then you press arrow up, you want that command to be shown again. And in the beginning, we actually created a sort of terminal, homemade terminal, but it was impossible to maintain. So we actually use Xterm.js, which is another super cool project because it's a full-blown terminal inside made with JavaScript and that actually interprets ANSI code and it does a lot of heavy lifting for you. Again, as Antonio said, we are actually just gluing together things, but that's kind of what web development is. I mean, is this the sort of thing that VS Code uses for their terminal and Gitpod and things like that? Exactly. Yeah, exactly. Ah, interesting. So all these giant projects, they're built on this one small project that's open source maintained by this one person. What's the meme? XKDC package. What's the... I'm sure everyone has seen it. Like this. The whole, the pile of different boxes and then the one small box that's about to tip over. There's like this one open source project. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I mean, that's happened a million times. Open SSL is an example of that, I think. But I guess it's interesting because I always wondered about that sort of thing, using VS Code and seeing the 7Lin there and thinking it's kind of my terminal, but it kind of behaves a little bit differently. And I didn know why that was the case So it interesting Yeah So when it comes to building something like this you mentioned it just like tying together things gluing things together so that they working What kind of stuff is, like what parts of this, actually, before we head into that, let's talk a bit about the features. So people understand more what you can actually do here. So you have a command palette, for example. I'm sure this is not something that you could just like take off the shelf like some ready-made project? Like you probably have to build a lot of this stuff yourself. Yes, actually, there was a very good project about a command palette made in Svelte, but there was some itches that we don't properly like it. So we ended up building ourselves the command palette. But I think this is also the beauty of open source because obviously we borrowed the good parts of that command palette and added something else. For example, we also wanted the ability to swap files from the command palette. So actually, just like VS Code, you can run the command palette and if there is the angle bracket at the start, you are running in command mode. Otherwise, you are running in swap files mode. So there was these little things that we needed because we wanted to create these. And so we created our custom command palette. Just, for example, like the file tree. And that's actually maybe the things that I like to work least in SvelteLab because dealing with the file tree and file system, it's always a mess. It's always a mess. Yeah. But even then, we had to do something custom because there was some very specific issue. For example, the fact that we wanted specific icons for specific files. So we built a lot of things custom. and we had a kind of road mark during the hackathon because we had a minimum hackathonable project. So it was not an MVP but minimum hackathonable project because we knew we wanted some feature and without that feature it wasn even worth to present for the hackathon But then we actually reached the MHP mid-hackathon, if I can remember correctly. And so we spent the last part of the hackathon to refine something and to make it as much as possible tailored towards SvelteKit because that was our real goal. Like we wanted an editor that could really integrate with the SvelteKit development. So I'm looking here at the, so you mentioned the file tree here. And I noticed that you hide a lot of the files that you can usually see in like a Svelte project. And I think that's probably a good thing. So things like, I can't even remember what kind of files that I can usually see in here, but it's like ignore files and all of this stuff. Yeah, so the idea was that we're mostly working inside the source folder. If you're doing quick experiments, you probably won't even touch anything at the root. so you can just show the file tree from the source folder so all the clutter just gets away you can focus on the actual stuff that you're trying to do and the file tree is a bit more cleaner but you can just use a command or inside the file tree in the menu you can toggle it back and forth so if you need to edit a file you can also search for the file in the command it's like a focus mode yeah I wish it was easy to set up in VS Code I know that you can but it's not quite as intuitive as I would like it to be. Yeah, VS Code has some issues that could be a bit better in some sense. All right, so you have a command palette, and in that you can do a bunch of stuff. You can install things like Tailwind and other things through Svelte Ad, which is a great project by Jay on the Discord, Jacob. And yeah, I assume this was mostly just like building a modal that popped up and then you actually just run the command in StackBlitz Maybe I simplifying here but a that basically it We just have buttons for each of the packages Svelte Ad provides and then we just run the terminal command, and then, yeah, it does the rest. So again, just plugging stuff in, just gluing stuff together to make it a nice experience, but the heavy lifting is done by the Svelte Ad on that part. Exactly, but it's such a nice user experience on the front end. And like you plugging all of that in for you makes like a nice developer user experience on the other end. One of the best command, in my opinion, that I use a lot, is searching the SvelteKit dock right inside SvelteLab because it helps you maintain the focus. The context, yeah. The context, exactly. And very often I don't even need to open because if you then click on the record, it will bring you to the actual SvelteKit documentation. But given that you also get a bit of context inside the search, sometimes I don't even need that. Maybe I don't remember the signature of a function, and so I just type there and search. Obviously, the create root, for example, is another one because we have it in VS Code and it's very, very good and very, very useful. And obviously, StackBlitz will never implement something like this because they have to be as broad as possible. So, for example, if you open a React project inside StackBlitz, there's no way to create a root. So that's the kind of things that, in my opinion, made SvelteLab really tailored toward SvelteKit development. So I guess following up on that, like these very specific Svelte and SvelteKit features, like do you have any other ideas that you want to implement that you haven't gotten around to yet? I'm not sure what that would be, but. We are actually, for the moment, we are trying to enhance the experience in editor because one key point

 that in my opinion is missing is the integration with the Svelte language server and the TypeScript language server, because I mean, having auto-completion and having diagnostics, it's very, very important in my opinion. That's probably why 90% of the people use TypeScript. And so it's very, very important to have these. We have made some progress because right now we are integrating the diagnostics with SvelteCheck. So we use SvelteCheck under the hood to check your whole project. And so you get errors and diagnostics inside the Svelte file and the TypeScript file from SvelteCheck. But we are also trying to actually use the Svelte language server inside the web container API and communicate with that. we are missing a bit of things because there is actually I think it's actually a bug because we are also communicating with the StackBlitz team because they actually like SvelteLab very much so we are communicating with them and there is actually I think it's a bit of a bug so if I run the Svelte language server through MPX it doesn't work and it should work. So they are actually trying to fix this. So hopefully at some point it'll just start working for you guys then. Yeah, exactly. I have to say the StackBlix team is one of the most collaborative and working with like the browsers and other people trying to get this out and like working. I mean, it's also like good for them as a company, obviously. Like it's their product and they want it to work well. but they're trying to do something good for the ecosystem too. They actually made a PR for Chromium, if I can remember correct, to fix a bug that was affecting the web container API. Yeah. Yeah, they're very nice people. I got to meet their developer relations person, Silvia, at a conference a while back. Super nice. Yeah, okay. Where is this hosted? Sorry just Is this all hosted on Fly Because I can see some FlyTOML stuff in there It all on Fly Actually it just the Pocketbase instance that is hosted on Fly And SvelteLab is actually all hosted on the edge on Vercel. On the edge. On the edge as well. Wow. That's cool. Did it go down yesterday? I think no because yeah Edge is on Cloudflare right well it is but it uses AWS routing from that region so it may have been inaccessible depends on various factors but I think even Edge went down which is a shame alright so let's talk a bit about your choice of Pocketbase Why did you end up picking Pocketbase? So Pocketbase, for anyone who is not aware, is like an open-source Firebase project kind of competitor or alternative is maybe a better word. I think it just speaks to me because it's similar to Svelte. It's super simple, just like one thing very well, very focused, very easy to set up, and it just works out of the box and plays pretty nice with Svelte as well. Also, the front end for Pocketbase is built with Velt. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, it is a very nice project. How do you use it? Do you use it for authentication of users? Do you store files? How does it work under the hood? What do you do? Yeah, we use it for authentication because you can actually... I mean, a basic OAuth flow was simple enough, but it's provided, so we decided to use it. That makes sense. So we use it to authenticate, and then we also use to store all the repls. And another thing that because we choose, the reason because we choose fly.io was because we wanted something very simple and Pocketbase under the hood uses SQLite. So we don't want something heavy. I mean not that Postgres is heavy but it heavier than SQLite I mean it requires another server or instance of some kind And so it was very easy to set up because actually it was I think a Docker file on Fly.io. It's not very heavy. It's not very, and it's very easy also to work with. And there's also the ability to store actual files. But since we actually needed the whole file structure, it's just a blob, a big JSON inside PocketBase. Okay, so the whole file structure, including the code for each file, is that just one big JSON? Yeah. Oh, interesting. I imagine that could get hairy if someone has a huge project in there. That's why, for example, we limit the file, because we recently added the file upload ability, so you can upload assets, but we had to limit the amount of data. But at the same time, I mean, if you are building a super huge project inside SvelteLab, you are kind of crazy. You should probably build it locally. Exactly. SvelteLab is for quick experiments. So we actually thought about maybe we should actually upload files. but then for example the whole Svelte Lab repo excluding node models that does not get sent to Pocketbase is like 200k so if you extrapolate just the files, just the code obviously it's not that heavy so we are pretty confident that we can continue like this and if someone will upload like Windows file system inside the inside the Valt Club we we are screwed but we will shut the fly.io instance down and yeah I don think I have a question about sorry no no well my question question isn really Spark It kind of PocketBase But obviously PocketBase uses SQLite and SQLite has this JSON data store. But where is that JSON data store stored? Because I thought Fly was basically Docker containers, and Docker containers are ephemeral. So how does it get persisted forever and ever and ever? Yeah, you can attach a volume in Flight.io. Okay. There's also, I mean, they have a pretty generous free tier, also for volumes. In the future, we might, because one thing that we wanted to add was a bit of some replica around the world, on the edge to facilitate that. But also, we're actually using regional edge on Vercel. So it's actually just on, I think it's in Washington. Okay. It's closer to our instance of Flight.io. So when it comes to using Pocketbase for something like this, I have no idea what kind of numbers you're seeing, but you always hear this thing about like, oh, you shouldn't use SQLite for things that are write-heavy, etc. Have you seen any issues with people complaining about not being able to save or stuff like that? No, and I think also because from what I've read, I think Pocketbase can easily handle 10,000 connections concurrently. and we don't have 10,000 connections concurrently. We wish we had. But obviously we are on a much smaller scale. So we never run into problem. I hope someday we will run into problem and then we can scale out. It's a good problem to have. Exactly. It's a very good problem to have. Yeah. Okay, cool. Any other things that we haven't touched on that we should maybe talk about? One thing I would like to say is because SvelteKit is like the basic or the core for everything you want to do in Svelte, it's really nice because we don't have to make any assumptions.

 we can make assumptions on what kind of build setup we are using and we can tailor it for any kind of SIRL application. So from small component tests to a whole routing test, you can do everything with SIRL kit and we can just plug into that with one unified tool. So that's really nice that these things are so coherent and working together. Yeah, so I just got an idea here. Have you thought about having... So at the moment, when you go to the Svelte Lab website, you just get thrown into a Hello World kind of project. What about having different kinds of basic project structures that are already set up? Is that something you've thought about? That's something that we need really to address. And so I want to publicly say that we have documentation. So if you go to docs.svelteLab.dev, because just as what just happened to Kevin, we actually have templates. So you have different kinds of templates. You can set up your default template from the command palette or even just open a new template. So we have, for example, TypeScript template where TypeScript is already set up. We have Tailwind template. We have Tailwind plus TypeScript. We have MDsVax, and we are also, one of the idea was to being able to tag one of your REPL as a template. So you can even just fork it, but other than fork a REPL, you can also share your REPL as a template so that the other people just go and can choose your REPL as a template, as a basic template. Oh, nice. I completely missed this feature. Definitely something I'm going to take a look at. Yeah, that's kind of an issue we ran into because we have so many features, but they are all hidden in the command palette. So we just recently added a new menu bar so you can have a dropdown of different sections where the features are maybe a bit more discoverable. But yeah, that's also why we have the docs now, so people maybe have more ways of finding stuff. Could you maybe have like a modal that pops up? So I don know if you using a service worker of some kind Like every time there a new version you can pop up a modal that shows like a changelog Oh here the new Yeah, I'm always against having something that interrupts because if I want to experiment, I just want to go on the page and start editing. And so that's why I don't want anything blocking. But then again, like if you only do it for major new features that I'm sure... In VS Code, when they have a new change, it pops open a new tab. And I almost always just exit out. I never read it. It's just interrupting to your flow. No, you're right. Could also have it down in the right corner if you don't hide that thing. Yeah, we have the intro, yeah. Yeah, something like that. Pop over, pop up. Here's a quick word from our sponsor. Vercel is the platform for front-end developers, providing the speed and reliability innovators need to create at the moment of inspiration. Founded by the creators of Next.js, Vercel has zero configuration support for 35 plus front-end frameworks, including SvelteKit. We enable the world's largest brands like Under Armour, eBay, and Nintendo to iterate faster and create quality software. Try out Vercel today to experience the easiest way to use Svelte. And also another thing that I would like to go towards with SvelteLab, because one thing that I really love, for example, about CodePen is the ability to see what other people are doing. And I think this is also very true for the Svelte REPL, because if you search something Svelte-related on Google, you will get a lot of Svelte REPLs that are doing maybe just that thing that you're looking forward to doing. So I would like to experiment a bit with this, like having a showcase page where you can look at what other people are experimenting on SvelteLab. Right now, for example, you can share your profile page to let other people look at all your repels, but I don't think anyone has ever did that. I mean I know about this feature and I never did it so I think a lot of people basically because every single repl is there so all the Headerworld stuff where we just tried out is also there that also why we think about adding some type of collection or playlist where you can group different reports together So if you have a bug report and have the solution and you want to keep them together, you can do that that way. But yeah, that's not implemented yet, and we're just thinking about how that could look. It would add a bit of a social feature, but you would also get more traffic and SEO to your site. So I think that would be beneficial. Also, one thing that I want to say is the fact that you can download a SvelteLab project. So in the command palette, you can actually download that zip. And I want to say it because luckily there are quite a few people that are using SvelteLab to provide reproduction for bugs in SvelteKit. and I saw a lot of times maintainers that say okay, can you please do it in StackBlitz because we can download this so you can download it. So just a question about other features. What about collaboration? How difficult is that? Obviously, I guess it somewhat depends on the CodeMirror stuff. Yeah, I think collaboration is actually, I think, a core package of CodeMirror. But for the moment, we don't have collaboration. And I mean, one of the issues might be that obviously we will need another external service for the web socket because... I mean, Pocketbase has support for real time. If you can use it with the CodeMirror stuff. Maybe. I don't know. Yeah, maybe. Maybe that's worth a try. That would be cool. But then you have to build all of this stuff around who gets to edit, who is allowed to delete ad files, all that stuff. And that's probably a lot of stuff to add. The next hackathon. Yes. Next year. So So I think that's it for my questions, at least. Brittany, Anthony, do you have any? No, I think the only things that we didn't mention, we talked about it beforehand, but we were talking about web container support being in Safari I tried it last weekend on an iPad and you have to actually use the Safari browser on an Apple product So I used Firefox and Chrome and Edge and you can't use those browsers even though they use Safari under the hood. You have to use actually Safari which sucks. I'm actually using Safari now to check out the spell. Yeah, because you're like Safari. That is true. All right. So, yeah. Yeah, my only question really, I guess, is sort of aside from adding features to this, where next? What's the next big thing? I think the thing we are focusing right now is providing the correct IntelliSense for Svelte project. So this is a thing we are kind of focusing right now. And then collections, absolutely. and then we are kind of experiment. Again, this is a bit of a busy moment for us. So we are actually working on SvelteLab, but not as much as I would like to. I would like to work a bit more on SvelteLab, but obviously times come and times go. But we will continue to work on SvelteLab because, again, it's our baby and we love it and we want to bring it to the next level. Cool. Yeah. And also people are using it and people are sharing links. It's so amazing to see people from the community sharing examples using it. It just warms my heart that people actually use it. Yeah. Yeah, because... I know y'all are both really busy too, but it would be really nice to have some of those features integrated into VS Code too. If anybody wants to make an extension that does that, that would be great. to have like just Svelte add thing where you could do the command palette and do Svelte add or have the hiding the stuff on the sidebar would be great. I've always thought like Svelte add should be like a part of the Svelte project in general. The actual Svelte extension? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, or even just like, because now it's a separate external project. I understand that they don't want to bring on more packages and take on more responsibility. Or bless anything. Yeah. But it's kind of like one of those essential things that I think more people would use it if they knew about it. And I think...

 blessing it would help with that. Would do that, yeah. I mean, I actually, sometimes I also ask the Kev about this because I'm kind of vocal about SvelteLab, but that's not because I built it. I mean, that's also because I built it. I'm proud of SvelteLab, but it's very, it's exactly because I think it's something that this Velt ecosystem needs. so if tomorrow Puru comes in and says okay I rewrote the whole Svelte REPL and now it's just like Svelte Lab I will be vocal exactly the same way something tells me though that we're going to have the regular REPL and I think that it makes sense to have them both because just building you can definitely feel the difference in snappiness, if you will. The amount of time it takes to instantiate a project and so on. So for quick Svelte-only stuff, it definitely makes sense to have the REPL. And that's also what you kind of want to I think that's what you want to show people first as well. Like, oh, here's how to use Svelte and then you move on to SvelteKit and SvelteLab. for more similar things for sure okay so we have reached our uh one of our standing topics for every episode we are at the unpopular opinions section and today it seems like uh britney has one let's hear it i have one because we were talking before the episode about design that I received today that has this list view of a product card that has, it's basically like a table view and there's too much data in it. And so it looks like a table and we got in this conversation and Kev, I think said, you should just use a native HTML table. And I said, they're awful because they're not responsive. So you use like the native table element and then when you get to a mobile viewer if you start at like mobile responsiveness you have to use divs and then change it and that awful to do like in code like you have to use some kind of logic to make that swap and I don like doing that in the code I would rather just use the same markup and the same CSS and allow the CSS to do what it's good at rather than using JavaScript to do something that the CSS should be doing. We do this for CSS, by the way. I'll show you the code but there's a little known attribute called content and what happens is when you resell one of our tables just using pure CSS it drops into cards with no logic no JavaScript, nothing The display contents? Yeah, what happens is you add on each header element you add an attribute called something like content and then you can address that content thing in CSS and grab the text and so in pure CSS you can turn it into cards which will basically give you like you know, a card representation of a table row, right? Like it would change it to a grid view basically Oh, interesting Yeah, it would change it to a card view straight down I've never seen anything that would do that Yeah, I'll show you I would love to see this as well I think everybody wants to see this so please make make a cheat sheet about these things and make it go viral because I will be as vocal about this as I am vocal about Svetlana. Just let the Bionc logo on there for some free marketing. I'll do it. All right, next up. I think you all have unpopular opinions, so I want to hear these. Maybe, Antonio, maybe you could... Yeah, I think we are using too many microblogging sites now. We have a tutor, of course. We have Mastodon. We have Blue Sky. And I have not set up any kind of cross-posting, so I'm doing it by hand, and it's awful. I don't want to do it. Is it just me, or did Blue Sky kind of die? I haven't even looked at it in like a month. I'm currently using it, but I rarely check on Blue Sky. And I think the problem of Blue Sky is that they are missing a for you algorithm Now they are released the custom feed things and someone actually I just discovered a home plus feed that should be kind of for me But I think the real power of Twitter, I mean, at least for me, is the fact that you can just browse your, for me and get to see what other people that are not inside your circle, what other people thinks. that I think is very key it's very important because if I have 20 subscribers if I have 20 follow it's kind of boring because I just see what those 20 people have to say and that's kind of Facebook and that's why Facebook has died in my opinion yeah you kind of need that extra big feed before you get to like Like before you have followed enough people, you need something to fill out the quietness or silence or whatever you want to call it. Well, I think even when you do follow a bunch of people, those people have a set of opinions, and I think that it's nice to see other opinions interpolated. Yeah, you're right. You get inside a box if you don't. You can get inside these circles and not hear outside of the circles, and that's kind of the problem with the world a little bit right now. Yeah. Twitter's encouraging that now, unfortunately. Anthony? Yeah, my rant, my whatever, I mean, it's kind of recycled from an old one, but I feel so passionately about it that I have to say it again. Notion is not good. You should not use it. Notion is just great. I've agreed. There's a guy who, he made a node consultancy back in the day. I think he was at one point part of the core Node.js team, but he's created an alternative to Notion called Desipad, a guy called Nunojob. And that Desipad is actually, he started one of these hosting companies. What's it called? I can't remember. He's called Nunojob. Oh, sorry, yeah, the tool's called Desipad. So him and a bunch of those guys have created a tool called Desipad. And it's kind of like Notion, but you have a focus on numbers. So somewhere between Notion and Airtable. and it's great if you're trying to build I mean it's all closed beta right now but it's interesting to look at what they've done and they got some demo workbooks but basically pulling a bunch of stats in a kind of database format and then writing articles that use those stats and visualize them and do charts and things So if you're presenting stuff as a business, like, it's really cool for that. And I think, you know, this is kind of like the ranting section. This isn't my pick. This is my rant, really. But I think that Notion tries to do too much, as I said before. And DesiPad fills a niche whereby you do one thing really well. Airtable does one thing really well. Coder actually focuses on doing one thing really well and it lacks some features than Notion does there's space for all these tools and interrupt between them but I think one that tries to cover all bases is never going to be good and unfortunately that is Notion right now yeah the main problem I have with Notion is just that it's so slow, I mean then you rewrite it in Svelte and then maybe it's a good tool I think rewrite it in Svelte and maybe swap the database account management you can't copy and paste, especially on mobile. There's lots of things that are problematic with it. But I do like some of the things that are... You can't do it on desktop. You can't copy-paste full stop. No matter what you try and do, you have to find this invisible pixel in the middle of white space to grab and start to select. Rubbish. You can't delete properly. It doesn't delete. It just does do something else random. What's the other open-source tool that Cassidy Williams is always on about? It starts with an O, I think. Oh, there was one that... Obsidian. Obsidian, yeah. It's not open source though, sadly. Oh, it's not? But it's really good. No, someone's made an open source one as well and I can't remember what it's called now. Lock? Yeah, I'm going to... Lock? Something with lock, I'm not sure. I'm not sure. Anyway, that's my rant. Next notion, again. All right. I actually have two unpopular opinions but one is very quick because I just thought about the fact that you can rewrite Notion in Svelte And I'm sure if someone do it, I will call it like Svotion. And I kind of hate this kind of names. I mean, it's cool. Some names are cool. Like, for example, MDsVex is cool, in my opinion. You know, that's not how it started. I'm pretty sure it started out being a very, very contentious name. I actually wanted to call the Svelte Lab a svench, like a workbench. But Svensch is the...

 Yeah, we talk about... No, not Spanish, it's Svenvel, so like an anvil. Yeah, it's really forcing it. And I opposed it because I kind of don't like forcing the sv inside names if it's made with svelte. So this is a quick one. And the other unpopular opinion, which I hope it's not unpopular, but I think PWA are fine. I mean, I think PWAs are way ahead instead of, I mean, especially if you need to work with React Native, and maybe I'm saying this because I'm currently working with React Native, but the amount of weight you take on your back if you're working with React Native, and all for maybe a bit of smoother animations because I really don't see the reason to have an app, especially because on Android, you can install PWAs with the web APK. So you actually get a real app experience and the amount of things you can do with native, I mean, PWAs can do a lot of things. You can vibrate, you can access geolocation. and the only thing that you miss is push notification. But even then in React Native, you still have to set up Firebase to have push notification. So actually you can't push notification even in React Native. So what's the point? I think Safari just recently on their latest keynote, Apple introduced support for push notifications. So it should be possible to do now in all of the browsers, which is great. They actually pushed out a lot of good features for PWAs. I sound like a spokesperson for Apple, sorry. You really do. But honestly, I think now that we have these features that Safari has really lacked, and because Safari has been the only browser on iPhone, we can now finally actually make PWAs that work across all phones. So I actually going to go out on a limb here and say that I going to make a prediction And I think that we going to see more PWAs and less native apps maybe we see apps built using things like capacitor which are basically just like web views wrapped in in like some native shell or something as far as i understand it so yeah maybe that's not such a spicy prediction? I think one of the biggest challenges is the differences between all of the mobile phones and the way CSS plays between mobile views, between those devices. Like there's different responsive units now. Like we have, I don't even know what all of them are. There are like a hundred of them. Yeah, there's like lots of them now. And there's different things that you have to do because some browsers put their nav bar on the bottom, some put them on the top. And it's weird how it shifts on mobile phones. So there's still a lot of work in that space. But if we could do some CSS things, I think there's something. The new dynamic viewport 8, dynamic viewport width, are not just to address this? No, I mean, I don't know. I don't remember exactly what all of them are for, but they're like so many new. They are trying to address that. I don't know if they do completely address it, and I don't know what the support is. I haven't fully looked into them yet is what I'm getting at. I don't know if they're fully there yet. I'm sure we'll have to wait like three years. Yeah, exactly. Of course, Safari implements it. No. Or I guess Firefox nowadays. Yeah. Ouch. Yeah, so I think the trade. yeah i think the trade-off there is still kind of in the favor of pwas right because you have like if you build something native you still have to configure it for android and then configure it for iphone well it's just like having this discussion at work too like we have a pwa and a lot of people at work use their mobile phone to like do our they add things to their car and then they go to their desktop to actually place the order. So we need like a good mobile view, but we don't have teams that could build a native app. We build in Spelt. So there's not really a good native version of that right now. We would need to hire people that could build in a native platform. So it a trade right now Don do it Yeah Free yourself Exactly So we have a PWA So it yeah Yeah. Yeah, it's not just that it's easier to build. It's also that I don't really see the need for a native app. Once you can do all you can do with PWAs and you can do a lot, like, again, accessing, vibrating, it's a lot of things that you can do with PWAs, I really don't see the benefit of learning a new platform because you have to learn React Native. Also, you also have to have knowledge about Android and iOS development because you will have to touch inside specific files, and it's a mess. Yeah. All right. So I think that's our unpopular opinions. I don't have one. Maybe my pick actually is an unpopular opinion. We'll see. So do you guys have any picks? Or maybe I should go first. So my pick is global warming is great. And it's tongue-in-cheek because it's making Sweden very nice and hot and awesome for me. but everything else is probably going to the poop pile. So, yeah, it's just a joke. But that's my pick. As the four ice cap around you is melting. Yes. I have a pick, but it's for newly come parents because it's actually a cartoon that my son likes to watch, which is called Bluey. and I really recommend this cartoon because it's wonderful. I very often find myself to just watch Bluey while my son is doing other things because it's good. It's basically a cartoon that talks about a family of dogs that lives in Australia and they are super into imagination games so there are those two small dogs that do all sorts of imagination games and the father and the mother just go all in on the imagination games and continue to play with them It very awesome It is the best cartoon for a parent watching with a child It stands down the best cartoon. My kids love it. And they're older kids too. They're 10, 9, and almost 9 and just turned 7. So I still love it. and my pick is diablo 4 i just started playing two days ago and loving it so far it's been really fun um beautiful game to play entertaining yeah i saw someone got it running on mac even so uh maybe i should try it is that impressive i guess like well actually actually yes yes uh This is so sad to me how long Apple has went with not having a decent gaming system, but they can do that. I like the fact that the whole salesperson, Apple salesperson, Kev, continue to emerge. I have played every, well, I guess I didn't play Diablo 1. I played Diablo 2 back in the day. It was one of my first MMOs. I played Diablo 3 and then Diablo 4 now. but this is the first one I've played on a console. So I'm playing this on PS5. I played the other two on PC. Oh, it's on console? Yeah, so you can play it on anything, basically. And I'm playing it on PS5, which is very different, but it's kind of freeing, not sitting at a computer. You can play with a controller. You have to get used to the controls doing that, but it's a much easier experience, I think. How does it work? Do you have like a cursor or are you controlling the character? No, you run. It's just like a normal platform game. Like you run with the joypad and then the normal buttons, because you would play with the mouse, like with the left and right click, that is X and square. And then it just assigns buttons for the skills. hmm maybe that's I remember you like click and then the character goes there but now we just use the stick yeah you just run with the doy the joystick and so that's that's much better yeah it is it's so nice yeah

 all right um antonio do you yeah so my pick is also a video game i'm still obsessed with the legend of zelda tears of the kingdom it's i've put like 50 hours into it but i feel like i've only scratched the surface it's amazing how feature or how full of stuff to do this game is it's crazy and kind of makes me anxious because i will never be able to do everything but i'm having a very good time yeah that's so i was talking to a friend just before we started recording the podcast about and he was completely sold on the game like apparently you can make machines yeah you can like build crazy contraptions and stuff that moves on itself and yeah it's crazy it's the most open open world game right now i would say well you can kind of almost spell alright Anthony yeah so my pick is weird because I always explain why my pick is not normal sounding every time don't I but anyway my pick is basically I don't like e-scooters and it's not a rant I don't like e-scooters because I find them irritating and they get in the way when I'm trying to cycle and stuff like that but you bought one but i bought one and the reason i bought one and it's it's quite different to a regular one but um i think walking to and from nursery every day a lot or or something that i did whilst i was trying to pick up the child from the cot or something caused my tendon to to have a an injury of some sort and um it made walking very hard and they're quite hard to heal and take a lot of recovery so i tried to cut down on the walking that was one of the best advice i got from my uh my doctor and And I was thinking if I could cycle there it be great because I can cycle there one way and push the pram back But I have to like my bike up at nursery which I don want to do and vice versa on the way back It going to be really irritating I was trying to think of solutions whereby I could have some form of transport that's not like getting a bus or whatever. And so I realized if I get a really, really lightweight e-scooter and I searched Amazon and stuff for ages to try and find one, I could actually put it on the pram when I got to nursery and then push the pram back with the scooter and the child in it. um and i found one on amazon um called a mega wheels s1 and it's eight kilograms in weight right and that's that's ridiculously light if you imagine most these scooters are quite big heavy things this one is it looks like a regular scooter the battery's so slim on the bottom and it's dead cheap as well like they don't cost any money um you know relative to the 500 quid that scooters cost this costs about 150 pounds so it's really really lightweight really really small, compact. I stick it on the bottom of the pushchair and just walk back with it and the child in one. So it's really convenient because it means I've cut my walking down by half, which is not normally a goal I'd have, but there you go. Yeah, that sounds like an anti-goal. No, I have to cut my walking down if I want to continue walking, if that makes sense. Yeah, I get it. Yeah, alright. I think that's all of the picks, all of the unpopular opinions and yeah, that's it for us. Thank you Antonio and Paolo for coming on and talking about Svelte Lab. Thank you so much for having us. It took a bit longer to get this podcast sorted out, but we finally did it. So, yeah. And to everyone else who's listening, we'll see you next week. Bye. Bye. Hey, it's Kavir. If you like the show, please drop a review on your favorite podcast player. It would help out a lot. Thanks.