 Hello, everyone. Welcome to another episode of Svelte Radio. Today we don't have another guest, but we do have some really fun news. SvelteKit is in public beta. But before we get started, we'll introduce ourselves. I'm Kevin. I run a site called Svelte School, and I work at a company called BuddyBase. I'm Sean. I guess I should post on Svelte Society Twitter for a living. And my side hustle is I work at temporal.io. Hi, I'm Anthony. I am the CTO of Bianc, which is a booking ecosystem for the tourism and leisure industry in the UK. And I'm also a Svelte maintainer and Svelte kit maintainer, I guess. So we're getting information straight from the source here. I mean, the maintainers of both, they're essentially the same maintainers, right? It's one project. Well, yeah, to an extent there is a core maintenance team, but there's actually a few more people on the kit that aren't officially kind of maintainers just because they've just had a specific kind of vision for something to happen and we've found that valuable so they've been added to the fray and they're kind of becoming maintainers because once you get involved you kind of contribute to everything and in fact some of those have become fight maintainers as well which is Oh that's interesting I guess were there like a couple of issues that needed to be solved in invite or feet, whatever you call it. Yes, there still are actually. There's a few issues in invite just because obviously it's quite new. It didn't really have SSR until KIT came along, so a lot of the SSR stuff has been provided by the KIT maintainers. So yeah, it kind of made sense, I suppose. So what's new here? What does it actually mean to be in public beta? Because the repo's been open for like a week or two, maybe? It's been closed, right? or rather like you can't comment, you can't open issues, you can't do PRs. It was close to the barbarians. So it's interesting because there's a couple of issues in there that have said stuff like, I can't remember the exact wording, but open it to the Ravel, et cetera, et cetera. It's quite funny because people dig around and find those. Obviously, all minutes, yes, it's just quite amusing. So a public beta or beta to us kind of is we wanted to do this earlier but obviously when you trying to build something that kind of on the edge and it a bit new you end up making a lot of pretty huge architectural changes so we didn't want to give access to anything because by the time someone raised an issue it might not even be the direction we're heading in anymore so the first opening of the repo so that we could actually see the code the actual source code was at the point where but actually we ran out of GitHub build minutes because it was a private repository and you get limited. So that was a kind of... So that's why you open it up. Well, it's not the reason, right? But it expedited by a couple of days maybe. But it's quite kind of funny to say that's the reason. But yeah, I mean, it basically was the reason. So... Within minutes, it was leaked online. Yeah. That was to give people who'd been pining it, you know, chomping at the bit about, you know, getting a bit more access to viewing how it works underneath so they can understand the issues they're seeing, could actually see that stuff. Again, it was something we probably wanted to make a longer period just to get that initial feedback without having to manage. Because once you open issues, you've got to start managing the issues and maintaining the issues, and they get open so fast. We've already gained 20 issues or something. And it's just another thing to keep on top of. So it was holding off that a little bit until we had complete clarity over how it worked and what it did and stopped some huge major things or whatever that were popping up. The beach is basically opening issues, opening that and allowing feedback on actual issues and triaging and all that kind of stuff. And it's cool because a couple of people have actually jumped up to help us triage those issues. In fact, one of them is just called Jay. I don't know what the full name is, but thanks, Jay. Jacob, I think. Is it? Yeah, I think so. Oh, he's gone from the wrong character. His name is really useful. Isn't he the guy that made the Svelte Adder stuff? We talk about Jacob Babich here. Yeah, isn't that the same guy? I don't know. That's the least to me if it is. Maybe it is. I think so. But I might be wrong. I might be wrong. Now we can't look anything. So, Kev, sorry you were saying. No I was just saying so does this being in public beta mean that the APIs are kind of locked down Like they won change too much So yes and no I actually changed the API yesterday I did a PR that removed App Utils Well, I mean, it's sort of changing APIs. It's additive, right? So it's not like I've broken anything or removed anything. What I've done is I've split the App Utils package, which was kind of, it became a kind of dump for some file system stuff and some HTTP stuff. We realized we really needed it only in two places and they were quite separate. So we've moved the bits for that into here, the bits for that to there. And the other thing about that is because we've kind of gone CommonJS to ESM for adapters and then back to CommonJS because certain providers can't pass ESM stuff, you have to export and compile things differently when they're dependencies of ESM or CommonJS projects. So all the adapters that were relying on the CommonJS stuff stopped working because they were in ESM and vice versa. So anyway, that's a change, and it's added some builder stuff to, so it's added some file system stuff to the builder, and wherever you want to use HTTP stuff, you have to import it separately. So it is an API change of a sort, but it's not like, oh, you have to go and fix everything now. It's more additive, so you can use it from a different location. Yeah. But yeah, in terms of locking down the APIs, they're by no means locked down, definitely not before we reach a kind of RC stage. and start versioning properly. But they're pretty good right now. There is discussions about how we, and we'll probably talk about it later, but how middleware gets handled because people are missing express middleware already and Polka middleware. So we're just having some discussions internally about how to resolve that. So how do you actually get started with CellKit? How do you get started? Do you npm init? Spells it next. Yeah. That's it. so easy and so one discussion here yesterday was that we're going to potentially remove the the original svelte template because it's easier for people i think if you have a single way in so svelte kit should be the way that you build things in svelte whether it be a hybrid ssr spa application whether it be a pwa whether it be an amp site whether it be a component anything at the idea being that you'll always use kit, you'll always do the same command, and it be that npm init create spelled at next Sorry npm you know what I mean Yeah It makes it easier for newcomers to get started quickly right And you get the blessed router, I suppose, right? Yeah, you do. And that's one thing that might be a holdback because not everyone wants that router. So we're considering options for that right now. But yeah, if you've got a single way to do something, it makes a lot more sense, I think, for people. And if you've got a hundred different ways to start a project, you kind of get confused. So it's about keeping it simple. Yeah, I think it's a great idea. I would not maybe remove the template because it's still very useful for me to learn where Svelte stops and where the other tooling begins. And I think that was one of the benefits of the original Svelte template, which was right from the start, everybody could see the webpack or rollup config. It's not hidden away from you, which means that if you have a certain level of comfort with these configs, then you can modify it yourself and have full control. So I appreciated that. Yeah, so that is one concern. So what the plan, I think, is maybe that the Svelte template will become an example project inside the Rollup plugin because effectively that's the reasoning where you might want to use that template is if you want full control over the Rollup configuration stuff. It's just misleading as a kind of starter because it's not the recommended way that people start stuff now. Was there any debate over the amount that you scaffold out when you do npm init Svelte at Next? Because something I noticed was you do add the optional Svelte config.cjs, which is an interesting choice. But then you don't add some other pretty standard things like an error layout or other file formats that may be scaffolded in a standard Sapper app? So yes, there's a couple of things here. The first one is the CJS extension on the Svelte config. I believe that's due to a restriction in Visual Studio code that it can't read ESM config files. That's what I was hearing yesterday that I understand. And it's something they've, I think, fixed. And so soon maybe we can drop that. So the other thing, the scaffolding, so when you create, obviously the goal is to keep the build as simple as possible. It's a bit more complex with Vite and stuff because

 you know, we don't have much control really over what Vite does and builds out. And what it does is some pretty complex, like, wiring of stuff to make it a smooth experience. So whilst trying to keep it as simple as possible, we are also at the same time cognizant that it's a lot more than just cloning a repo and it's not like a couple of lines anymore. And I think it's something we'll always look to address, but there's no guarantees yet. In terms of what that template does from the get-go, it's a balance between making something where you've got an immediate option when you install, like you have a TypeScript and all that sort of stuff, where you declare what type of thing you're building. And it's a decision between that and also maybe when you build that one thing, it can do anything without having to say up front what you're building. So it's somewhere in the middle of those with a goal to push as far as we can towards minimal setup in that CLI, and then you've got something that can become whatever it used to be. So have you guys, I'm sure this has come up, but have you guys considered just having a CLI where you can initiate a bunch of different types of projects? Like a toolkit or a regular one, or maybe even a Routify one, or an ElderJS? So we wouldn't build a CLI that starts to build external projects because it puts the burden of maintenance for those projects upon us, which is something we definitely don't want. However, that would be a great project for a community person to do. But I think the other reason, though, is, and I'm not saying that people should always just use ours and not use any other things because I think ElderJS and Routify are fantastic, but our goal is to provide something where you can build a self-think with as little overhead of should i build should i be using ratify should i be using elder whatever else the idea is to go from your keyboard type of few characters and that you've got a stealth thing and it can be whatever it wants to be without having to decide up front what your architecture might look like so we're So you're more likely to move in that direction than trying to build a, here's a big huge list of options that you can create. Are you guys thinking about stuff like picking what adapters you want and things like that in the CLI Well so the adapters is a weird one They intentionally simple so that it means you can build them There are a few adapters in there which for example is not particularly well-known, the begin stack. But the reason I built that adapter was because I wanted to build an adapter, basically. So I built the begin one, and they've kind of become blessed and internal and supported by others, but it's just a factor of when Kit started. I wanted to build adapters. We want to limit the number of adapters in there as much as we can, again, because of maintenance. But we have got some plans to support those adapters in that we'll actually deploy them to the requisite providers on every commit so that we know that they work. And we'll run some rudimentary tests, perhaps. There's an issue discussing this right now, so feedback is welcome on that. But yeah, we don't want to have loads of adapters because it just becomes a bit nightmarish. Yeah, okay. So speaking of issues, what kind of issues are still to be discussed or figured out other than this particular one? The GitHub issues are a good sort of indicator to the things we're discussing. One thing that's been currently discussed is the middleware thing. So people are obviously quite tied to middleware. SvelteKit's goal is to be completely serverless, like serverless first, where you can build for server full environment if you want to. these are kind of at odds obviously because middleware is a concept not at the adaptor layer it's more than the application so there's a discussion now about how we handle a middleware type pattern where the middleware and this is this is a view that i share with rich is that the middleware pattern that's being kind of influenced by express is not a very good pattern it's it's just not it's like a it looks like a hack and i've always hated express but i've I hated Express for the same reason. Should this have been your unpopular opinion? I mean, it could be. That's not a bad one, actually. I hate Express. I'm just going to say that. It's mostly because of the request format, right? I don't like it. But it is like the de facto standard. It doesn't fit in with serverless because it doesn't really use that kind of middleware pattern. It's kind of a raw handler. So yeah, the discussion is out. Sounds like a hard problem to solve. It is. It is. And it's been a discussion that I've seen for the last couple of days in the maintainers channel. like, you know, how is this, how are we going to solve this problem, right? So there's people who are, you know, very much want to deploy on server-full platforms, which is totally kind of within the bounds of what Sveltegit does but we haven made any special accommodations for doing that yet And I think the other one actually is maybe a personal thing with me that I don't know because I haven't had that much time to actually play with SvelteKit apart from writing as adapters. I've noticed that the way you install dependencies now, and I think it's due to Vite, it is very different to the way you did it in Sapper. So in Sapper, everything was dev and everything got bundled and you've got a bundled server and a bundled frontend. Kit doesn't seem to do that. So when you install prod dependencies, you still need them there. So when you install dependencies, sometimes you put them as prod and you need them still there when you're actually running the application because the handlers don't bundle those dependencies. I don't know whether that's something that the adapters should be doing. I don't know whether it's something that Kit should be doing. If we want to do it at all, I don't know. So there's things like that that I guess would just be a learning path and probably go in the FAQs. I have some questions. I feel like we may have skipped through So obviously people should read the docs, but I just wanted to do some introductions of high-level concepts. I think a lot of things ported over pretty nicely from Sapper. And there is a migration doc specifically for people moving from Sapper to SvelteKit, which I quite appreciated. I think there's some new concepts though, right? There is some very fancy route matching of some logic of if you request a route, this is kind of like the resolution logic that kind of goes on there. There is a concept of a session, which maybe came from Sapper, but I'm just not very familiar with what a session is. And I just wanted to step through some of the big concepts that you think might be relevant to discuss on SwapKit. Yeah, so with those two in mind specifically, so the root match you think is in Sapper, obviously file system roots are defined by their file name. so parameters are defined by putting brackets in there and you can do some sort of rudimentary regex it has its limitations um we don't want to move away from file system routing but we would want to make it a bit more powerful than it currently is so there are some experiments i would call experiments right now what do we break and it's you know it's very rich again what do we break if we do this uh rather than oh if we might break things it's more like we're going to do it and what we're breaking here and how can that be worked around So the idea being to enhance Regex matching a bit so you can have more dynamic routes And there already a pretty angry Svelte Reddit thread on it I believe, that I've been replying in. Yeah, well, about, you know, it breaks IntelliJ, so therefore it's a bad thing. And my responses on there have been, basically, that's not how we work. Like, if your tooling can't cope, don't use the tooling, right? And I like IntelliJ. I think it's a fantastic tool. But, you know, everything has limitations. And if it has limitations for file names, then let's fix IntelliJ. Let's not break, let's not cripple our own output. Let's not stop us having features that we want or we think are valuable because tool XY said that 10% of people use, or even if it was 90% of people use, can't cope with it. As long as the underlying file systems on Linux and Windows and Mac can handle it, then it should be a candidate for something we include. So yeah, so I think the goal is to make that regX a bit more powerful than it is so that you can do some pretty cool stuff with it. And the other thing, Sean, you mentioned, sorry, I can't mind now. Session stuff, I think. Yeah, sessions. Am I supposed to, what am I allowed to do with that? That sounds very powerful. Well, so the session store in Sapper was just a regular session store. which is a regular store, right, that you can populate as part of your server. You can pre-seed it from the server. It's special in that it's a server-side store that you can populate, which will then appear in your client without any extra effort. And the idea was it handles stuff that lives in your browser as long as you're within the bounds of the SBA and you're clicking around. If you refresh that setter store, again, needs to be pre-seeded from the server-side. So if you're going to put something in that setter store in SEPA and you don't do it at the server side, if you don't worry about it at the server side, then it's going to get cleared if you refresh or something else happens. Now, what's changed in the kit version, I couldn't really tell you. What I can say is it's getting a bit more use than the one in SAPA did. The one in SAPA had some pretty obvious omissions, I believe, that should have been useful. it wasn't as powerful as we wanted and so the kit one is now properly usable for authentication and stuff like that so that's the changes I know

 is that we're making, we're kind of formalizing it and deciding what it is based on feedback. Whether it's a finished spec yet, I don't know. And how different it is to what was in Sapper, I also don't know, unfortunately. The reason it jumps out at me is typically you don't do sessions with serverless, right? If the whole premise of SvelteKit was to move to serverless, then sessions is a bit unusual. Begin does actually have a concept of sessions that is pretty easy to use. But I don't think the other platform providers support that very easily, and you would have to wire up something special on the back end. I don't know. I haven't thought this well. It just jumped out at me as like, hey, serverless, we don't really do sessions here. Yeah, so again, it was easy with Sapper to build a stateful application, although I would always recommend against building a stateful application. the session again it's like it exists in the server but really it's not something we would say is persistent it's not so where you should store the user's authentication it's more where you store a kind of a token or a something that says they're authenticated like a flag almost and then your your state is managed by jwt or something else is designed for authentication in a stateless application. So yeah, it's a weird naming. It's more akin to a browser session, I would say, than a server-side authentication session. It's like a session store in your browser, right? That's also called session, but it's not really a session. It's a session within your browser. As if things are not confusing enough. Yeah, right. So there's this thing called setup in the documentation where I think you can do stuff like, it does seem to do something with sessions. I'm not sure what's going on there. I've not seen the setup method at all, actually, but I would assume that that's equivalent to what we had in SAP before, which was the... Like a server.js file? Yeah, and a client.js file. So it's where you can pre-seed these stores from your server side. So my cookies, for example, are not readable from the browser. They only exist in the server. Sorry, they're not only from the browser. They only exist as HTTP-only secure cookies. So the only thing that can read them is the browser itself. So I have to read those cookies in the server side So I assume that probably the same thing That setup has access to those cookies that aren readable by JavaScript effectively Yeah, that does look like something like that. I've got more. What's the dollar signs? Dollar signs. Money, money, money. This is a weird one. Yeah. This is a weird one, because the dollar's being used to kind of demarcate internal stuff, right? And I think it still does. So the dollar is saying that something is kind of a concept of kit rather than something the user should be defining. And we've tended to use double dollars for kind of more internal concerns as well. So it's a weird one, and I don't know what the decision process was behind it, but historically, Rich has been very against aliases. So all this kind of roll-up plugin alias, I think it's called, and the Webpack equivalent. Oh, yeah. I think I remember a discussion about the... Because that was a thing in Zapper, right? You imported from source... Node modules. What was it? Yeah, yeah, yeah. And people got really, really upset about that. Yeah, and they're saying, why don't you use aliases? And the reason the logic is sound, right? We already have an aliasing system built into Node, into JavaScript, which is Node modules, the Node modules resolution algorithm. so why not leverage that it makes a lot of sense it's a weird one because people have very much in their minds tied node modules to being part of npm and it's not um but yeah so that that was logical then and and it's still logical now but i think i think it started when we were using snowpack snowpack is very heavy on aliases and mount points and i think they're unavoidable because of the way that snowpack is actually structuring your application you know because in dev it's not loading from a bundle. It's not pre-bundling. It's just loading stuff off your file system. So kind of everything becomes an alias at that point. Is that the same in V? Well, yeah. So I think it's the same sort of thing. It's not quite as explicit as Snowpack was, but everything obviously is still loaded off your file system. It's all virtual in the browser, the virtual paths. So mount points are kind of implicit, and so therefore it makes kind of sense to use them. so I think we've now gone to the point where we call it aliasing it's aliasing with a good reason because we literally can use the module require system I don know the exact reasons behind it but that what I understand So yeah the dollar things are just named repositories of files So like components, or we call it dollar lib now because it's not necessarily components in there. So having a default one called dollar components seemed like a misleading thing. Yeah, I think, so I think Routify also uses dollar, for example, for the layout and files. Yeah, that makes sense, yeah. I think it's just nice. I think Raspi does some magic with a dynamic, it builds a dynamic routing thing in a folder somewhere and then it gets bundled at the end. So again, that's a good reason for a mount point, right? Because it's not something real at the time of dev. Right, yeah. But it is real, or is it? I don't know why I said the time of dev and not dev time of dev. Time of dev. Maybe it felt good because we're to work things that aren't really real. It's like the time of death. It's like Game of Thrones stuff. It's when you go to work. It's time of death. Time of death, it is. Yeah, so I wanted to talk a bit about the Svelte Radio website. And I've been tinkering around with it for the last few weeks. And it's been horribly broken and then working and then horribly broken. So now I'm talking about the SvelteKit version. So I've been using the, I think, SpellKidsense version maybe 20, like the next 20 version. Now it's at like 50-something, is it 60 maybe? And it's been getting more and more stable. I remember in the beginning I had a lot of issues, but now it's been working pretty well. It's a lot of fun to build with. There are some kinks that you have to figure out. But yeah, it's been great. It's going to be great to release it as well. I've started building my potential summit talk. I say potential because he knows how to time or not, but my potential summit talk in KIT. And yeah, the development experience now is pretty straightforward. If you want to build an application, it's a couple of commands and you're done. The thing I've run into, the thing I mentioned before about dependencies, I've still got to figure out what exactly that is and how that works because I'm using I tend to use these libraries which are very much common JS and obviously Vite is very ESM focused and Kit is very ESM focused so you going to find some issues when you trying to import CommonJS libraries There no amount of plugins and roll plugins that can actually fix every CommonJS library But the ones I've imported there ESM have worked pretty well out of the box. So yeah, there'll be kinks. We think we just need to document that maybe are more obvious to us and not obvious to everyone else. For sure, for sure. So the thing I've been missing actually from Routify is the concept of all the helper functions that are in Routify. I don't know if you've actually seen those. I've seen a couple of them, yeah, around routing. Yeah, so it's basically just like getting the current page or the parent page or stuff like that, which is pretty nice. I don't know if that's possible or even something that you want to have in the actual SvelteKit router as a feature? Well, there was discussion around this. We've still got the page store, the dollar page store, and there's a few people who are just very happy with the dollar page store and .split, right, split by forward slash. Yeah. Now, there are also a bunch of people who think that we should have more of an object structure for how that works. So you can still access all that stuff, which is great, but you also get access to perhaps an object which contains the individual components of that URL, how to call the parts and all that sort of stuff and what's a segment and what's a subpath and everything else, how to handle parameters. That's kind of all undecided, but I think it's an idea we're toying with of how to improve that so that it's kind of easy to access without having to do your own spacing. But at the same time, it's also that delicate balance between making something or singing or dancing and making something just raw and simple so it's easy to understand and predictable and you can do what you need to do in your own way because it's kind of also subjective based on the person implementing. Definitely. I'll just shout out one feature which I appreciate. We don't really need to talk that much about it, but there's a SvelteKit prefetch attribute that is new, I think. And I think it's just an easy thing to tack on to any anchor links to increase the perceived performance. And it's just a great addition. So people should definitely check that out. And it's not like a banner feature of SvelteKit, but it's just a really nice thing to have. Like one of those more useful things. It actually works in two ways as well. So it works in a way.

 because there's actually a slight delay between you touching a link and opening a link on a mobile. It doesn't immediately open that link when you touch it. So a prefetch even tries to start loading the page the moment your finger touches the screen, which is pretty cool. That sounds like, what's the thing in, isn't that a Ruby and Rails thing that was released? Very possibly. Turbo links or something? No, no, no, no, no. Hotwire. Hotwire, that makes sense. Is this basically an action? Should we just use the action syntax rather than... I do very remember a discussion around that as well. I don't remember what the outcome was, but I think the outcome was basically it's not an action. Fair enough. I'm sure there's a good reason. There's a rel equals external, which I don't understand. So the docs probably need some work. Do you understand this? I'm not going to put you on the spot. Yeah, okay. No, I don't understand it per se, but I do know there's a difference. So if you link to, if you mark an internal URL as external, it will actually reload the page when you click it, I believe. If you mark an external URL as external, I remember not doing it, and I think something might have broken when I did that. I had some work. So I had some work. That's what it was, I think, right? So I have on my main domain, I have some aliases like URL rewrites that are in the cell. So they look like part of the application, but they're not part of the application. So if I don't mark those links as external, Sapper thinks they're part of the application because it's using single page application routing. And it will try and load it by doing an external routing, but it's not part of the application. Right, so if I've got example.com blah, it's not part of the application, it points to some of the application. SAP sees that link, it's like, oh, that's an internal link, I'll write that into my router. I'll break everything. And it will break everything, right? Yeah, that's what happened. That's what it was, that's what it wasn't. It was quite, yeah, it seems very odd because why can't SAP just handle that? But I think in order for SAP to determine if it's internal or internal, we'd add a delay anyway. So it's probably an optimization. but it works. Yeah, okay, well that explanation made more sense than what's in the docs, so we should. Maybe it's in the docs, yeah. I think that reasonable You just reminded me of one more kit thing I should mention that actually quite a deviation from SAP thankfully So in SAP the base URL is something that was set at build time This means that you can't build a site that will be able to be hosted. Subdomains. Well, not subdomains because that works, but subpaths. Subpaths. Right. So we have a lot of providers that want slash experiences with experiences underneath, and we can't do it right now. so the idea with ktis we're going to make it into a potentially an environment variable so you can pass it in at runtime so you can pass it in your environment and i think this is actually also essential for ipfs support i wrote a very rudimentary ipfs adapter it's just a node adapter with an extra line it's very simple which is quite cool but i never i never put it in the code base because it's just something to maintain that we don't need however it uses subpaths as part of its build process, I think. And they're dynamically generated, so you can't, you don't know what that's going to be at build time. So yeah, it's certainly in the issues, it's one of our things that we're going to make a dynamic base path, and I think that'll be welcomed by a lot of people, especially me. Isn't that also a thing for internationalization, I think? It's usually something that people... Yes. There's a lot more complexity to it than just having a subpath. There's been a lot of discussion on the issue on SAPA. Hopefully we can take some of that on board and make it a thing that's really workable for Svelte kit. But I don't know in depth to say whether this solves it or not. I'm pretty interested in internationalizing the docs because Svelte has a pretty decent global community and there's some energy there. If we let them loose just translating things, I think it would increase the adoption in various countries. And that was a big move for Vue when they internationalized for China. Yeah. Which actually brings us to, there may be a spinoff project to write docs, which is something I suggested. Interesting. No, for you. We talked about this. Oh, did we? Yeah. My memory's shot. For SvelteKit's docs, you essentially have to build a static site generator for docs. And I was like, why don't we just extract this and then make this the default docs tooling for all Svelte projects, right? Yes. Yeah. And I think that's what we're doing. the site's repository is exactly that. There's some more work to do to build an API for it. Now, I'm not going to guarantee that this provides an easy route to an international A18N. And the reason that it doesn is because it not so much about the willingness of volunteers it the maintenance of such if we have docs in multiple languages there a real burden of maintenance on the individual contributors to those docs to keep them in line with what we've written if we have outdated docs in china that say the wrong thing we're not going to know about that because we we don't read chinese right you don't read any of any of these languages and so it's it's a huge problem for us in that you know we we're fearful that we'll bless something we'll have something official that isn't correct and true so the the real the real thing is how do we ensure that the maintenance is going to be optimal we can't guarantee any of these contributors that are doing it that they'll not lose interest after a month and disappear so so yeah it's it's a huge sort of more like a logistical problem than anything else. And it's certainly not for lack of wanting to have translations. It's more maintenance, contributors. It's difficult to do that, I guess. Actually, I was just going to say, I could imagine a dedicated tool that draws as a data source from the English version and then has a translation that's true as of a certain hash. And all the subsequent hashes, all the subsequent edits that come in, you could sort of display them and say, these have not been translated yet, and anyone who comes along can help to patch it up if they want to, or if they can read the translated version up to a certain point in time and then see the diffs in English. I think it's a great idea. There has to be tools for this, right? As far as I know, no one does this. It's just very, very manually translated by dedicated community members, and it's just not very good. But something's better than nothing. Maybe the org could use some of the open collective money if we could find a company that solves this problem. That might be worth using money for. It's possible, yeah. It's possible. That's probably not a bad way to spend it, actually. I don't know if there are any companies like that. I mean, there's got to be translation companies, right? Yeah, but I meant more like the actual infrastructure around it because you kind of need the expertise of using Svelte to actually understand what the meaning of the docs are sometimes You do So one interesting thing so I think for the Russian translation because the Russian translation actually exists on our domain, and it's maintained by the guy who wrote Tinrow, so Alex. So he's written a GitHub web book, I think, that receives every single change we make to the docs repository and pings him to retranslate it. Now, again, there's still a dependency on him to then translate every single one of those that come through. But that's certainly a step in the right direction if there was, say, a way of collecting these up so that community members could translate and then people could approve them maybe. Yeah, definitely. Awesome. Well, cool. There's a lot more that we haven't touched upon, but this is a... this is a this is an incredible project uh the community has been very excited about it and congratulations on shipping a public beta thanks thanks for you all right so unpopular opinions uh yeah shall i go first yes go for it so this is this is a bit of jest but it's just causing me a lot of pain and it always does cause me a lot of pain daylight savings time should be abolished and there is actually a great protest somewhere it's been going a long time petition sort of thing to actually abolish it. I'm not sure I'd like it because I do quite enjoy having the extra hour and having more light in the day, especially in often dreary England. But yeah, just as a kind of stamp my foot, hand my pitchfork, whatever, I think daylight savings time should be abolished. What if we went further? And so actually, so to complete that thought, I actually recently learned that daylight savings time actually kills people because if you have a timer somewhere, whether it's like a hard pacer or like a traffic light that's just kind of off or whatever, people die from it. And there are documented cases in the US at least. So people are trying to get rid of, I think they're going to, they call it ditch the switch. And there's momentum at the state level. Two out of the 50 states don't have DST and about 13 more states are trying to remove it. But you have to get congressional approval and Congress is not doing anything. Yeah. I know. The more aggressive version of this is just get rid of time zones, right? What if everyone was just on the same 24-hour clock and we were just on GMT or whatever? That would be great. That would mean that certain countries are just in darkness all the time.

 That would be so nice. No, you just have different norms, right? There was a time before time zones, and what if there was a time after time zones? You would just be on Sean Clock, right? Well, GMT would be very favorable to Europe. Yeah, that's true. What's your unpopular opinion, Sean? Facebook has good features, and I miss them. Ridiculous. So you need to elaborate here. Why are you missing them? I wanted an old photo of myself. Twitter doesn't keep old profile pictures. Gmail doesn't keep old profile pictures. The only one that does is Facebook. GitHub doesn't keep old profile pictures. So you want to time travel, the only thing you can do is go to Facebook. Yeah, Facebook, they did some social media right. I asked this question on Twitter. and the other top thing that a lot of people miss is pokes. Like you just randomly poke everybody. Oh, right. Yeah. Really? Those were the days. I love poking people. So we should bring back pokes. And then like, you know, once you start down this path, then you're like, actually, you know, Facebook wasn't all bad, you know. Yeah, it definitely became bad over time, didn't it? Kind of what happens when you got to squeeze all the money out of your users? I've actually been fired for updating a Facebook status before. Oh, wow. Really? Yeah. It was a relationship status because I was an RA in college and then I started dating one of my residents, which you're not supposed to do, of course. And it wasn't supposed to be a public announcement or anything, but I was just randomly toying with it. I don't know what I I was thinking, I just randomly clicked and then made that relationship public. Everyone was cool with it. It just wasn't official. But once it was Facebook official then the administration got involved and then we had to do things But it was a really funny situation That crazy All right. My unpopular opinion, Clubhouse isn't as fun as it used to be. Or rather, isn't as fun as I hoped it would be. I haven't used it in a while. Maybe that's on me though. I don't know. What do you guys think? I don't know. I haven't used it in a while. likewise um there was even a there was even discussion about having like a svelte society clubhouse and i think that's kind of gone um yeah tech it was it was pretty hot in february and then uh you know as as these things do they they do tend to die off but this has happened to clubhouse before it has been hot and then it died and then it came back so we'll see we'll see we'll see what it is i think i think it has value for some people and then some people just don't vibe with it and that's fine i have primarily been there for the celebrities so uh the moment that i found that you know the people that i wanted they all record their their sessions anyway on youtube or whatever then there's no there's no reason to stick around a clubhouse yeah it makes sense interesting i didn't know that yeah so i mean for me like i haven't used clubhouse in ages but i haven't done much in ages apart from work to be fair i guess the thing that struck me was i mentioned on twitter that you know uh twitter launched spaces which is effectively the same thing looks very similar i was under the understanding that they cloned clubhouse but actually apparently they started building spaces before clubhouse was even conceived so to be fair to them like well done um but what i will say is that spaces already looks far more interesting more for me because i already have a follower kind of following on on twitter um and apparently when you join one of these uh spaces on twitter and i haven't done it yet i haven't had time but when you do people people flood into those into those chats much more quickly than they do on clubhouse and again it could be about followers counts and things like that but um it could just be that's a platform that's already on your phone and you don't need to have a separate application that sends you 400 notifications a day who knows yeah all right so uh do we have time for picks briefly i think yeah yeah yeah so i go to mine so my pick is home things so i really don like that they say themselves shipping water is is bonkers right there no need for us to ship cleaning products in massive bottles full of mostly water with a bit of cleaning products in it right so what home things does is they just ship a concentrated tablet and you put it in just regular tap water doesn't need shipping um and then they give you the bottles that you can reuse again and again because they're made of glass and they've got like nice nozzles and stuff on them they've got three tablets one for the bathroom one for the shiny things it says literally called shiny things and one for kind of everything else and yeah so they ship you tablets in a little tiny box in recyclable packaging that's eco-friendly i think it's compostable packaging no water needs to be shipped done and you buy the bottles once and that's it and it's right now it's it's very cool right but right now it's more expensive than well it's all the same price as buying a supermarket but they're a startup. As time goes on and they get more popular, hopefully it'll go down. But yeah, the shipping, imagine how many bottles of water people just ship around the world because it's got some cleaning product that you did in it. It's just ridiculous. So yeah, I saw it on Facebook and it's rare for a Facebook ad to actually have something of value, but it did. So there you go. Oh no, we're becoming a pro Facebook podcast. This is definitely not pro Facebook. This is a rare exception, right? A broken clock tells the right time for the day. That is true. All right, so my pick. I mentioned I've been building the SvartRadio site, right? And so I originally started building it using Tailwind, but then I ditched Tailwind and I started using just regular old CSS. No! I fell in love with this feature of CSS called Clamp. Have you guys used it? I haven't. I haven't, but I heard about it. So the short is pretty much that unless you set a minimum value and a maximum value and then a value in between, and whatever it is can go above or beyond that And I using it both for fonts and for spacing stuff So it a really nice way of building responsive designs basically It really nice Yeah. So responsive typography is one of those things where you used to need a bunch of tricks. I actually collected a bunch of these things. And there is some recommendation for how to do it right because you can get it wrong. And so I'm just going to copy and paste my code snippet into the show notes here so people don't get it wrong because apparently there's some accessibility issues if you do get it wrong. Okay, well, anything else you want to talk about custom properties? No, so I'm using it in combination with custom properties to do some fun stuff. But does it work in IE11, which is dying in all ways, by the way? Well, I don't really care, honestly. Well, I'm tracking the slow death of IE11, and I really, really think this is the year. I think this is the year the US government might drop IE11. It's coming really, really quickly. Famous last words? WordPress is dropping it. WordPress. Oh, okay. That will kill it for sure, right? Yeah. Well, it'll kill it for content sites, but the reason people use Stick Around with IE11 is for their enterprise legacy apps and all that. Anyway, last one, mine, which is Smashing Magazine's Complete Guide to accessible front-end components. I've always wanted something like this. It previously was available as a book, and now it's just available as a free guide. So you no longer have an excuse if you're implementing one of these things. Just stop by here, make sure that you're checking all the accessibility boxes, copy and paste some code, and you're good. That's good too. I need to use this for Svelte Radio. I've actually had a dream of building a component kit for myself in Svelte and Tailwind, because I like Tailwind. and people just copy and paste and you just have a good base. And I think it'd be a nice thing to open source. So it's a dream. I haven't done it yet. I just need a little bit more time in the day. All right, so that's us this time. Yeah, I guess that's it. Go play yourself, Kit. Yeah, absolutely. Try it out. All right, bye.