 welcome to svelte radio hey so that's a new intro very nice i'm uh kevin i run a site called Svelte School and I'm involved in the Svelte Society organization. I'm Sean. I work at Temporal as head of developer experience and I guess I just work on general Svelte-y things but also I'm part of the Svelte organization. Hi I'm Anthony. I'm a co-founder of a booking tourism platform called bionc and i am also a svelte maintainer oh nice so this this uh this episode is the first one where we have this this new intro and it's very awkward for for us to start this off properly because we're used to doing it in a specific way but yeah it's weird i forgot my intro yeah all right so what are we going to talk about today we're going to talk about the upcoming Svelte Summit, of course, and the talks and what you can expect on Svelte Summit. So I guess we can kick it off with some of the talks that we're going to see there. Maybe before we talk about the talks, I also wanted to shout out, I guess, the organizers who basically are just volunteers who stepped out to help select and organize and invite talks. And also the fact that a lot of good talks were submitted that we ultimately could not pick um maybe we should talk a little bit about the new format this year yeah so so last last year we pre-recorded everything including the actual event itself and uh that was easy in in some ways but it's also a bit boring you can't really interact with with the viewers as as the event goes on so this year we're going to do do it a bit differently so we have the talks themselves are pre-recorded but the actual event isn so we going to have hosts that are going to talk between the between And yeah we going to have some fun stuff planned as well like a quiz Exciting. And this has been a few years, a few, few years. It's been a few weekends of organization that have gone into this. So hopefully we've got some good stuff. Yeah. Hopefully. The other thing I guess I wanted to emphasize is we're trying to make it shorter and more lively in a sense, because the last time was something like eight hours of just straight videos. And it was a lot of fun. Yeah. So, so I think we aimed for something on the order of five hours and something like five ish full talks and 10 ish lightning talks. I don't actually know the final number. And, you know, so that that's like 15 talks. And we basically solicited submissions for both, both categories. And we had a lot of submissions for all of them. I think like something like 65, 66, something like that of submissions. So yeah, I mean, like we had a really weird position of turning away some really good talks. And also it was done mostly blind. We did a pass to double check, but we just judged everything based on title and description. So we definitely got some interesting quality people. And hopefully this process, I think it can be improved. But that's what we're trying to do. better every single time that we do something like this for Summit. I was just going to say, it'd be interesting actually to talk about a little bit about how talks are picked. The way Sessionize does it is very interesting. I didn't know that's how it worked. If you ever use Git bisect, it's a lot like that. You kind of get presented three talks and you pick sort of which you'd really be interested in, which you would be less interested in and which sort of in the middle. And you rank them and you constantly do that over and over and over again until it sort of orders your what if you were you know if you were the only person in the audience watching this conference it would be your order of talks and your kind of picks and what you'd want to listen to and every organizer does the same thing and so it should provide a fairly good spread of you know different uh useful information it should be like less duplicated sessions that sort of thing so i really quite like that actually and i think we we have like the number of organizers and the varying degrees of backgrounds we have. We're not all developers per se or like super into specific things. So we're quite different. Yeah. And we all have different interests. So it nice It gives us a bit of like a good spread of different topics And before we actually picked the talks as well we sat down and made a list of things topics that we would find interesting And yeah, I think it worked well. And so we had this, you had this idea, Sean, of doing the talks that we weren't able to fit into the actual event that we offered them to do talks on the YouTube channel. And we had a couple of offers for that as well. We're going to pick up more of those after the event. Yeah, definitely. Because right now it's a bit hectic. but um yeah it's always it's always weird because you know ultimately our goal is to try to grow community and not be some kind of gatekeeper at the same time we have to organize an event that hopefully isn't too long so the trade-off is youtube like we have infinite space on youtube we want to encourage as much as possible just cross-promotion of swell content so if you're interested in posting on the swell side of youtube uh just reach out to me or kever anthony and and let's figure it out. Yeah. Yeah. I want to let you know that I am actually nodding and concurring along here, but someone decided to fly a helicopter outside my house. So I'm trying to keep myself on mute. Gotta love helicopters. All right. So let's, let's get started with the, with the talks. I think this generation Svelte, it's, it's like a textbook that will make the first language for Norwegian high schoolers a thing. So I guess they're talking about programming languages right not languages in general i think that's pretty cool uh cool idea it's gonna be interesting to see like how how they how they're gonna do this and why as well as like yeah it's it's a it's hard to know what what the actual uh talk is going to be about but sounds interesting i mean they had me at the norwegian high schoolers bit um you know teaching programming using Svelte and writing it into, you know, I guess I'm always interested in, I guess, unconventional, well, you know, there's like international stories. This is a, there's an educational angle to this thing. To me, I was very drawn to this. I think this is one of our very easy winners early on in the process. Yeah, definitely. It a just the idea of using Svelte to teach programming is it appeals to me I think it super easy to get started with So I guess that why they chose it as well Yeah I always sort of maintained that Svelte is the closest to just writing JavaScript that I know of at least And I think that's sort of testament to it being a great language to learn in. Because you're not going to learn some sort of obtuse API that you then have to work your way back from to figure out what that API was doing under the hood. Really, all you're getting free from Svelte is a bit of wiring. And that, you know, there's not, it doesn't actually do that much for you. It just takes away a lot of the labor involved in, in sort of writing front end and UIs and UX. Cool. What's that? Up next, we have optimizing your Svelte community experience. It's a talk by one of the guys on the Svelte Discord. He's usually there. He's called Rain Life. And it's, it's pretty much about like how to ask for help, what not to do and what to do, stuff like that on in the community how you like how you optimize your getting answers to your questions pretty much yeah and at the same time not being not being loud and irritating to people that are answering questions yeah definitely it's like a meta talk it is i guess we should specify that uh these two so far are lightning talks so um we really want to survey the the wide range of concepts and ideas that people want to introduce so a good good talk to have for a community conference yeah yeah i think this this talk is uh is much needed well needed maybe not needed but it's nice because it's like the svelte is growing crazy crazily fast these last few months and there are a lot of new people coming in and uh yeah so i think it's it's going to be nice to have this to to point people to if they if they want to figure out how to get help more easily. Awesome. Should I go next? I guess this one is Svelte without the JavaScript. I think this is our, is this, sorry, I skipped one. Compile for accessibility with Svelte, right? Is that the one? Yeah. Yeah. I don't know. I'm just going in like the default export sequence. I don't know if you have the same export that I do. It's the same. Okay. So this one is by Anthony Lecois. I think that's how you pronounce it. I don't know. It's Frenchy. So he's one of the co-organizers of Social Society France. And so it's very cool to see him come give a talk and actually see his face.

 And we had a number of accessibility submissions, actually. So I think this was our primary pick. I'm not sure we have any others. But a lot of Svelte people are very interested in doing accessibility right. I think we do need more work to do apart from just the linting experience. I know that Jeff Rich is someone I talked to who is interested in submitting a talk separately. He didn't get his talk submitted this time, but we'll see him on YouTube. and he's got some accessibility with Svelte experience implementing Svelte at Alaska Air where he works. So just a lot of stuff going on. So yeah, so I think this talk says he's about figuring out the benefits and the limitations of Svelte's accessibility checks. So good coverage. Yeah, that's nice. And then we have Svelte without the JavaScript. That's weird. What does that mean? I guess we'll see. It's by, uh, it's a talk by Fred Scott. I think it's pronounced. I say shot, I guess. I don't know. We can ask him. I think I say shot too. Yeah. Yeah. I guess we'll, I guess we'll see at the talk what he, what he says. Well, right. So he's the founder of a Skypack and, uh, Snowpack. Snowpack. Yeah. This is going to be fun. Um, and it's, uh, yeah, I, we don't really know much about it, but it, it sounds uh sounds like a lot of fun i have a feeling based on what what i've seen him talking about i believe it's something like you know you use you use felt to just basically render page like ssr but then you don't do the hydration step or you do only as much hydration as you actually need i think it's something along those lines i could be completely wrong but i know there's a notion of doing that yeah there's a there's a part of part about partial hydration in there. So I can clarify a little bit. So first of all, if anyone is listening to this, by the time you hear this, we should have published the full schedule of talks. So you should be able to see the descriptions and titles you can follow along with us. And we're not necessarily talking in chronological order because we haven't figured it out yet. And then second of all, I think what Fred is talking about, actually he's hinted at on his Twitter channel. So it's basically his new build system called Astro that is paired together with Svelte and has a little bit of similarity with ElderJS as well So really partial hydration you only hydrate the interactive parts of your site and the rest is just HTML And he also exploring client rendering full static-side generation, the whole spectrum. So it could be interesting. Yeah. It will be interesting. It's going to be fun. All right. And then we have, this is another interesting one, like interactive data science widgets with Svelte and Jupyter. that's a new combination of things i didn't expect to see yeah that's very popular isn't it yeah this is by alex cabrera he's a phd student at carnegie mellon university i think yeah another lightning talk yeah and uh and something something we wanted to focus on for this one i think uh was that the data science community just loves felt because yeah i think i think we just don't get in the way of D3. That's the main job of Svelte compared to React. And we don't need like five different talks on how to integrate Svelte with, sorry, your framework with D3. It just works. And then the other really cool angle, of course, is that notebooks are a big trend in data science. And Jupyter is pretty big, right? Yeah. When I learned Python, that was the default programming environment. I didn't use an IDE. I just used notebooks. Yeah. Okay. Cool. So a bit like a REPL then, I guess, isn't it? Yeah. The idea is literate programming. So you run the code in cells and then you see the output of the code next to the code. And you can obviously also comment the code. So it's like this full document that you can read from start to finish. It's got a narrative. It's got the graphs and the table output that you're running. And you can run the document and execute code. So it's pretty advanced and it hasn't really reached JavaScript land, but Mike Bostock, who created D3 has created ObservableHQ, which is essentially Jupyter for JavaScript. Even though Jupyter itself runs JavaScript, it doesn't do it the Mike Bostock way. So he made a startup to do his own thing. And, you know, he's got some pretty cool people working on it, like Anjana Vakil. So definitely check out Observable as well. I'm really excited about this next one. It's called Svelte Can Compile and So Can You. And that title doesn really tell you much but it about doing internationalization at the compile time rather than doing it later And so this guy i think he from let see here from he from a spanish-speaking country i don't remember which one but yeah so i think he's going to talk about basically how how they're translating using the compile some kind of compiler or some preprocessor maybe we'll see and you say translating as in like it's basically internationalization is that correct? Yeah. Yeah. Okay. That's very interesting because that's quite a hot topic, I think, in Svelte land. Yeah, definitely. Yeah. Cool. I would like to have a default Svelte documentation tool that builds in internal nationalization from the start so we don't have to worry about it. It's a weak point of the Svelte docs and it'd be nice to have better tools. Maybe this is the way forward. Maybe this is it. Maybe. There is a, I don't know if you guys have seen the Svelte API that's been worked on? No. API.Svelte.dev? No. Oh, yeah. Yeah. So it's like an API for handling gists, I think. And did the docs as well. I think it's built on Cloudflare workers, if I remember correctly. Yes. Oh, Cloudflare. It would be right. Of course. This is... Now that Luke is a demo, it's bound to happen. Yeah, this is, from what I understand, it's something along the lines of, because when we currently build the docs, we just kind of pull a mark down from various places and turn that into pages and then publish those pages. And I think it's all a bit hard to work with and kind of a mess of Git modules, which, I mean, I don't know if you've ever used Git modules, but they're just terrible. They just don't work. I really don't like Git so much else. So this API.svelte.dev will fix all that sort of stuff. Nice. Maybe you can also bring in the who's using Svelte into that API as well. Yeah. So we can turn off the community repo. That would be very cool. We still get some weird PRs for stuff there. It's not weird. I mean, if you want to promote their organization and show their logos, I think we should. It's easy. It's just a few. Yeah. I just don't like it when some people mark themselves as... I think we have a feel for like, you know, notable organizations, you know, like famous companies like Apple and stuff like that. And then they send in their own company and then they market themselves as notable. Yeah. Yeah I have to go like ah let take this out I don know about that Well I mean it obvious why they would do that though Yeah I mean everyone notable really It's not so much about notable. It's just that, obviously, people who are coming fresh, they want to see the big names that use it to give them confidence that it's something that's maintained and active and kind of around. So, yeah, but, yeah, it's not, I guess, about notoriety as much. I think you can kind of draw a parallel to the, like, there was a time when people used tags for emails and you could add, like, important or super important. And everyone just defaults to, like, super important because everyone's email is super important. It's a real salesperson tactic. They'll just type RE in front of their title to pretend that you already have talked to them before. That infuriates me. That really makes me not want to use your product when you email me with RE in the subject, because I have not been involved in this conversation. I don't think it's that popular because it backfires so much. But it does happen. I do see them, and I think that's just really irritating, and I just delete email. But yeah, it's another one of those things. It's, you know, you ask a stakeholder of a product, what's the highest priority thing? And so it's all high priority. When it's all high priority, then nothing's high priority, right? Yeah. oh it's the z index problem or the syndrome from the incredibles problem yeah what what's that index is terrible syndrome for incredibles if everyone's special then nobody is no okay this is a meme guys guys this is i mean i need i'm not saying that meme i have to be after you know yeah i need to shape up on my uh my meme uh meme game all right but yeah the z index problem that's terrible that's a terrible problem drive me nuts what's the next one the next one the next one is uh swoosh yeah shabam exploding head emoji whimsy in motion sound like a screen reader right now yeah that was the point yeah so this is by uh you guys probably remember the uh floating head guy floating head guy yeah So this is by the same guy. It's Ron Au. Yeah. Yeah. So obviously he's one of the most interesting sort of quirky characters, I guess, from our story.

 speaker history and uh yeah very glad to see him back yeah i don't i mean it's all i know is this is about whimsy and that's all yeah i was gonna say that that title that title especially since i don't didn't really know whimsy was a thing it gives you nothing at all about the talk but actually i think that's probably the intention it it definitely is it's so i can give a bit of history uh josh como has been giving talks on whimsy for the past like two three years which is a little bit like of silliness um but in a done in a tasteful way and to me that's what that's what appeals to me about this talk which is i think josh and ron both share this idea that you can use animation and use these advanced features in a tasteful way to bring joy to to the user but not annoy them with like oh look at how awesome my animation skills are right like i think a lot of times when people show off animations they seem very inaccessible like especially that's how it seems to me like i look at someone like like sarah drastner's work and i'm like i will never be on that level right now the way that she animates like a map marker to you know using svg it's just it's really cool i'll never do it so so something something that's a little bit more reachable and i think josh is is i mean and she she does she does a lot of courses and i should probably put more effort into it but uh josh josh and uh ron i think i think the word whimsy to me means like a lighter touch approach to animation yeah so he says in the in the notes here that it's to be decided whether whether he's going to show a neck and a torso so maybe maybe the return of a floating head that well i guess we'll see i think he can pay more to see more of him i guess yeah okay all right so next up we have the declarative data visualization creating a bar chart race so this is by amelia wattenberger and russell goldenberg so it's a it's a uh data visualization talk again it's a great fit for swell i mean the stuff that the stuff that they do is just incredible so i mean this is going to be a visual a visual spectacle i imagine yeah yeah Love the visual talks. Yeah. And to be clear, for those who don't know, they both worked together at putting.cool. And putting is very well known for their data storytelling I not sure if there a specific piece they going to talk about here I think they just going to talk about some interesting techniques Amelia has published Svelte.recipes, I think, which is her repo of recipes that she uses all the time. And it's beautifully explained, just like everything that she does. And I think now she works at GitHub as a staff engineer, some kind of high level position. So we have someone in GitHub advocating for Svelte, and that's pretty cool. That is cool. That is cool. I think GitHub have been traditionally very, very much build their own stuff from scratch every time as well. So it'll be interesting to know how that works out. Build from scratch with Svelte? Well, exactly. Yeah, maybe. Well, because, you know, they sort of started off building their UI using a series of queues to render various bits and bobs and do it all manually. And that's kind of a common practice now. They call it island front ends and stuff like that, but they were doing it all themselves before that was even a thing. So it's interesting to see them. Yeah, I guess it has to start somewhere. Yeah, exactly. Someone's got to invent it, and then it becomes a thing. Yeah. Okay, anyone want to pick the next one? Okay. So I love this title, Design Engineering, but it's the N with the Enya for Spanish speakers. And the subtitle is Writing and Design System in Spanish for a Team in the Mexican Cultural Public Sector. So this one's pretty similar to the Norwegian talk, but in Spanish and in Mexico and for the public sector. So again, I really like to hear about these kinds of use cases. And they put a lot of effort into the description. I was just like, okay, wow, this is a lot. Yep, I like this talk. Yep, it's going to be interesting to see. And it's another kind of internationalization thing, which is definitely a good thing. It's definitely a different language-based thing, which is something I like to see, how people are addressing this. And also a Svelte design system. And they said it's not 100% release ready, but they're talking publicly about it. Probably it's pretty close. And I think people are very interested in building design systems. I think Svelte's a really good basis to build it with. And I think it enough for design systems talk Yeah absolutely Yeah Next up reactive forums with Svelte I guess this is right up my alley I did the on the first let see here So yeah, I did my first talk at the Svelte Society Day on a Svelte form library thing, which sadly hasn't been touched in forever. So there's that. But this guy seems to have, he's released something called Formula. and it's about yeah forms and Svelte it's a form library for Svelte so yeah I mean forms are obviously not the most glamorous thing in the world to talk about so it should be interesting to see a talk that does that well but it's such a common use case to want to have reactive forms it's something that we do especially every single day and it's quite painful you have to spend a lot of time refining it and validation cross field validation, all that kind of stuff is very complex. So it should be an interesting talk and it should be something that's useful to a lot of people. So I think there's a lot of value in that talk. Yeah. So this is a talk by Tane Piper. I have no idea if that's how you pronounce it, but yeah. I think so. So that's going to be nice. Cool. Next one. Cool. So the next one, I'm going to read this one out because I haven't read one yet. I've noticed. so this is Svelte Node GUI and how to build a custom Svelte renderer so this is a guy called Jamie Birch who was on our podcast I don't know how many weeks ago, a couple of weeks ago I think yeah, that episode hasn't actually gone out yet okay, well so wait, what? yeah, yeah he was so good I was very excited about it yeah it's going to go out You know, it looks like his talk at Svelte Svelte might come out before the podcast. That'll be interesting. But cool, yeah. So basically, yeah, he's one of those guys who's just incredibly smart, but also he aligns with a lot of my kind of views on things about, you know, open source software and Linux and all that kind of stuff. And so, yeah, so this should be interesting because it's taking Svelte into something more native rather than a purely web-based solution, which is an interesting new avenue. well not a new avenue but with no gui it's quite an interesting avenue because he sort of translates it all to qt so yeah not the usual electron app very interesting yeah it gonna be nice uh i will also mention that since we had the podcast Jamie also launched Svelte No GUI publicly because it wasn public when we interviewed him So he launched it on Hacker News and it was one of the most upvoted Svelte projects, I think, in, well, I think since Svelte. So for some reason, people are very interested in, I guess, electron alternatives and just faster, smaller UIs, which is something that Jamie is clearly very passionate about and i think all of us are passionate about here so you can check out the hackney's launch as well if you're interested in svelte no gui right um so this this uh talk that we're going to talk about next is uh testing svelte with jest validating your components quickly and this is one of those talks that i think it's nice to have there are too many resources about testing in svelte in general there so it's going to be nice yeah yeah we had we had some we had some criticisms, I think, from Svelte critics, I guess. Not the best phrase of words. Basically saying that, you know, because we don't have that much documentation on Svelte testing, we are not a serious framework. And that's partially a reflection of just the reality that Rich doesn't do much testing for his work. Well, automated testing. But also, I think there are just a number of approaches and we haven't really landed on something. So featuring something in Svelte Summit, I think, was very important to us. Yeah, I think also, you know, there's a huge notion within the Svelte maintainers to not be too opinionated about something. People should be able to test using whatever they want. You know, everything should work with it, and it should work that way. So if you start publishing, like, oh, well, you know, Jest is our preferred solution or Testing Library is our preferred solution, you're leading people automatically into thinking that's kind of like a blessed answer to testing, and we don't really want to have that. We want to keep it sort of open-ended, because not everyone likes Jest, not everyone likes testing library etc etc so yeah it's a it's a tough one it's kind of a fine line between not encouraging people down a certain path and also you know providing the resources people need if they want to um you know to test stuff basically yeah i'm i'm not i'm not really much a fan of of jest honestly i i prefer uh uvu oh yeah we talked about we talked about it with with luke it's this library it's very nice all right it's a lot more lightweight than than jest and a lot less opinionated. You know, Jest was built basically around React and now it's been sort of ported to other things. So it's not... Yeah, like it doesn't have mock...

 built-in, like Jest, for example, right? So you have to bring your own. It has a mocking library with it. I just don't know how well that is for the front end right now, because I think it was a community-driven effort to add a mocking library to Evie. Oh, I see. I've just been using this one called, I think it's called Snoop. Okay. It's funny because it has Snoop Dogg with the circling hand meme thing on the get up page it's easy to remember okay untangling composition and higher order components this could be fun or sorry this will be fun yeah so this uh this is talk about yeah how you how you compose different different things components. Yeah, I feel like this is the only composition talk that we got. And to me, it's hard to do well. So I want to see, we want to see this. I haven't seen the talk yet. But to me, the appeal of this talk is that it shows off some, I guess, lesser discussed APIs, including slots and svelte components, which is a API that I've never used. But I think it's a way to dynamically select the component. Yeah. Is that right? That's correct. Yeah. I'm actually currently building a uh like a i'm implementing the do you know the spectrum design system from adobe sure yeah yeah so so i'm currently implementing like a tree the tree view component there and so i have to like compose all these like the actual tree component with the like the menu or the items in there and then have it like and i wanted and then i want to add like drag and drop to it. And it's, it's getting very complicated very quickly because of, yeah, like I want it to be like a very nicely easy, very nice, easy API for, for, for the consumers. Right. But yeah. So, so I'm looking forward to this talk. Maybe this will help me figure this stuff out. We'll see. Yeah. All right. Cool. Okay. Oh, I can, I can pick the next one. So the next one is called building the next generation of low code with Svelte. Ooh, a deep dive into BuddyBase. Yeah. What is BuddyBase? Yeah, I don't know. I don't know. No. So I work there I know what it is It a low code Are you officially full time now Yes yes Ooh Well So yeah you a contractor and then I think they Yeah, maybe you should give some context. Yeah, so I started working with BuddyBase, like, I think it must have been like a year ago, a bit more. Yeah, just over a year as a part-time contractor. And then I went full-time, I'd say, like a month ago. So it's been a lot of fun. So we're building this low-code tool with, yeah, I mean, it's a lot of Svelte. So that's nice. That's kind of why I wanted to start working with them. So what can we expect from this talk then? Well, so I think you can expect how we use Svelte in the actual. So let's see. So we have a couple of different components. So we have a server component, a backend component, and we have frontend component. And obviously the backend isn't built in Svelte, but the builder itself and all the applications that it generates are Svelte applications. So we'll see kind of how that's made to work. Does that make sense? Yeah. For those familiar with the low-code space, BuddyBase is basically an open source retool in the sense that it directly connects to the data sources that you have. and it lets you use a drag and drop approach to spin up a site or like an interactive app for internal usage, basically. I think the reason for me, it took me a long while to figure out like what's this focus on internal usage? It's basically that you don't really care about the look and feel like as much as if it's just for internal tools, like for salespeople, for marketers, whatever. And you're just building an access, like a view layer or like a simple CRUD layer into your backend. The tricky part is to do this without expending internal engineering time, which I've actually done at a previous company. So this is a massive space. Retool is a unicorn company already. And I always think that, you know, it's cool to see people build local tools because that means that your coding actually enables other people to create apps who don't necessarily code at all. Yeah, so we started out, I think, focusing more on the no-code side of things. But by doing that, we also get a lot of people that have literally zero experience building stuff. So at the moment we focusing on low which is more geared towards developers but have them be able to build stuff really quickly Because you still have to model your data and stuff like that You're not going to have people who have no experience doing that be able to do that quickly and easily. But yeah, it's a nice project. One of our catchphrases is simple by default. So this goes back to like, you don't really want to have to care about deluxe too much, but if you want to, you can customize it a bit. All right. Sweet. Is that it? That's it. That's the rundown, yeah. Yeah, that's the rundown of the talks, but then we also have some other things that are going to happen at the event. So we have a quiz planned where participants are going to be able to answer questions. I haven't seen the questions, but it's going to be interesting. I'm going to participate in the quiz. So I encourage you guys to join and it's going to be fun. And we're also going to try this new Discord feature. I don't know what it's called. Speaker platform? Yeah. What is it called? It's like, I don't know. It's like called stage rooms or something or stage channels. I don't know. It's Discord's Clubhouse clone. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, it's exactly what it is. So we'll see how that goes. Yeah. It's going to be fun. And then there's going to be a small after party. I guess we'll use Discord stage, whatever it was called, Clubhouse version for that as well. We'll see. Yeah, I think that's it. And we have some sponsors as well. So I really appreciate that. I think we basically sold out of our spots. There are a bunch of sponsors. I think BuddyBase is sponsoring. I don't actually have a full list, but I'm just calling. We're announcing them on the Svelte Society Twitter. so Filevine is the most recent one that we announced it's the operating core for legal companies cool, I guess they use Svelte and they're hiring legal hiring for Svelte sounds like you said illegal companies then we have Gitpod, right? so that's the so they provide like a workspace thing, I don't know how to describe it, it's like a remote workspace is that Is that a good description? Yes we can actually just read their description Spin up fresh automated dev environments for each task in the cloud in seconds Ah okay Yeah yeah yeah Yeah and I think they just migrated from Zaprits file kit and they even open sourced it I think Awesome. Very cool. All right. Anything else we want to... Oh, the event starts at 2 p.m. London time, and we're going to have a more detailed... So that is what, 1 p.m. in UTC, right? Yeah. I don't know, man. we're gonna add some more detailed uh detailed stuff for time okay for google asia is so 9 p.m singapore that's not too bad i'm in singapore yeah that's not too bad okay uh cool all right and you can catch it on the on the youtube channel be sure to join the discord and participate and get involved. Yeah, yeah. It's also, it's an opportunity. We get big jumps in, you know, people hearing about Svelte when people make noise about it. It's an opportunity to create a bunch of content so people can share it within the office and, you know, just realize that Svelte is a growing thing and people are getting a lot of joy out of it. So if you, you know, want to help out, just spread the word. It's a free event. Yeah, exactly. It's free. oh uh one thing to to mention is that there are rumors that there's also going to be a talk by rich rumors like uh we talked about this yesterday or two days ago and rich was like yeah i'll probably yeah it's not it's not really the traditional um meaning of a rumor is it no no it's just like you know he'll probably like do a last minute sprint but we can't like you know insist on him doing something but he's going to do something yeah all right so uh let's let's move on to to the unpopular opinion section oh yeah anthony go on i i don't have i mean that would be ridiculous of course i've got unpopular opinions i think all of my opinions are probably unpopular but i don't have one kind of nicely polished and ready for for discussion so i'm going to actually abstain at this time and pretend that I agree with everything everyone does, which is just not at all true. Okay. Uh, Kev? No, I, I only have popular ones. Okay. I'll, I'll tackle a quick one. Uh, we'll try to keep this short. Uh,

 So this one is, again, not exactly mine, but I just thought it very interesting to share. And I do share some of the sympathies. So this is called, so the context of this is that someone on Hacker News was very frustrated with their serverless developer experience. And they said, ask Hacker News, does anyone else find the AWS Lambda developer experience frustrating? I've been using AWS Lambda a bit recently. And, you know, I can unit test bits of code just fine. But at some point, I always end up stuck in a slow feedback loop where I deploy the code, manually invoke it, go through the logs in CloudWatch and then add a print statement and so on. So it seems like a very slow deploy process. And this guy who responded had just a fire take, which was basically, you've discovered what many other people have. The cloud is the new timeshare mainframe. Oh, I read this comment. This work loop is incredibly inefficient and was replaced by development that happened entirely locally on a workstation. This dramatically tightened the edit-compile-debug loop down to seconds or at most minutes. Productivity skyrocketed and most enterprises shifted the majority of workload away from mainframes. And now that we're moving a lot of development to the cloud, a lot of it just by definition cannot be replicated on our local machines because we're just relying on particularly closed source cloud resources. So the assertion here is that we lost something in the transition to cloud. And I think partially that's the story of serverless as well. And it's just a fact that even people from AWS were commenting like, yeah, you're right, we can't replicate everything. There are solutions like AWS SAM, SolarStack, Netlify Dev, Begin Sandbox, but they're all emulations of every environment and not the real thing. That's not a controversial opinion from my standpoint. That's a very uncontroversial opinion. In fact, I just strong agree there, I think. I think basically people are trying to sell you a lot of developers. And I definitely was on this train for a while that moving to the cloud is a clear win in terms of developer experience, just because you manage less things. It's more of a managed experience for you. But they manage so much that you now don't have anything on your local machine. Sometimes I have videos of myself waiting for deployments for like 15 minutes to see a change and then realizing that something wasn't right and then I had to go fix it again. And that's way too long. So we have to figure this out. Yeah. Orda from Microsoft and also from the TypeScript team has mentioned that Azure is working on this and apparently has a really good local dev story So people who are interested in fixing this should probably check out what Azure is doing Yeah. I wonder how you solve this for an industry-wide solution for this, right? Because all of these platforms are proprietary and they all differ, right? Yeah. So serverless containers is a thing that is spreading, which is kind of sounds like an oxymoron, but that's what AWS Fargate is doing. So as long as you can contain everything inside a container. Sorry, that's a poor choice of words. but the container is sort of the most well-tested unit of like reproducibility essentially and a lot of it actually comes from like okay not enough memory like you have a lot of memory on your on your machine but then when you deploy you're you're deploying to like a limited instance and you run out of memory on in production like oh okay who knew right it's because your testing environment is different from your production environment same thing for like pre-installed binaries or like this one's harder to overcome but like now it's very relevant your processor version uh like you know whether it's a mac it's intel or arm all right so docker is not going to overcome that but uh essentially if you can run a container and that's that's a nice uh unit of delivery as well so i think that's the solution that people are talking about but i don't ultimately there is a discrepancy you can't avoid it yeah it's gonna be interesting to see where we'll end up it's it kind of feels like a pendulum that just swings back and forth like goes from like everything on the server to everything on the client everything on the server Well, so there's another blog post that was circulating within my office today, which is like serverless infrastructure 2.0. Again, another hack and use post, but I thought it was a really good read on what truly serverless means. Because the whole problem with this waiting to deploy thing, like cloud would work if we did not have to wait for it to deploy, if it was just available. And that's what cloud should be. And we're getting there very, very slowly. So it's only 10 years old. uh imagine another 20 30 years on this thing uh we'll probably figure it out yeah cool all right picks then do you guys have one i can go first yeah good all right yeah i have to go first so you want to go first yeah i can i can go so i have the neural link mind pong monkey have you seen this no so go ahead no neural link is uh is an is another elon musk venture where he basically wants to do cyberpunk 2077 in uh that a nicer version i guess uh so so they they making like i don know exactly how it works obviously but it they doing like interfaces to the brain they implant these and then they connect it to to some device and so this video showcases like a monkey that's playing pong just with his mind which is amazing so he's moving the one of the uh platforms just up and down to to like yeah just playing pong i didn't even know a monkey could play pong but yeah with just his mind that's even more cool that make that's that's a bit of a game changer i mean i mean elon musk right he's the king of the game changes but that is amazing if you if you talk if you listen to the skeptics which they always are uh they they said that again he's he's doing his over promise and under deliver thing and uh what he's done so far isn't materially better than what existing research has done um and just because it's elon people paying more focus to it but oh yeah we've we've inserted we've inserted electrodes into the brain before yeah but still uh yeah he has a big vision i think i think he he he has a very very like he's very good at bringing stuff to market yeah like taking it from the research stage or like doing the actual engineering i think that's this he's very good at bringing it into the mind the present mind of people right that's that's the most important thing literally like he didn't invent the electric car we yeah well we had we had electric cars in in 1950 right i think i can't remember who did it i think it was i think it was what's that big gm i think it was gm had an electric car and it was you know hugely impractical but it worked and it drove around the city and people were like wowed by it because it was all electric but it you know we then just stalled on that for like what i don't know 60 70 years and then suddenly like elon makes tesla and ta-da like everyone's suddenly making electric cars everyone's copying everyone's cloning it if that's his only skill and his achievement then that's a great skill and achievement right is to bring it into the forefront of people's consciousness and i think that's a really valuable thing i think i read somewhere that that actually like the the actual first car prototypes were electric uh like like Way back in like the late 1800s. Really? Yeah, yeah. I might be misremembering. Yeah, I have no idea. Maybe I don know Yeah maybe Shall I go Go ahead Yeah So my pick and it kind of relating to the cryptocurrency theme we discussed before As you might know, I'm quite into cryptocurrency. I've been for a while. So people's biggest complaint with cryptocurrencies is volatility, making it no good as a currency, et cetera, et cetera. However, you can actually use that volatility to make some money with a thing called arbitrage, which happened in the stock markets for years, basically buying low and selling high over and over. and one of my now favorite um cryptocurrency platforms called kucoin has created bots so one click to set up arbitrage bots so you can basically take any token pay you want say dollars uh i'm doing dollars and telcoin right now telcoin being another one of my favorite cryptocurrency projects and it basically will give you three three questions like how many how many pots do you want how many grids it calls them how much money you want to put in and what's the lowest and highest you want to trade at and it will then basically divide your tokens up by those by those grids and as the price fluctuates as it enters one of those grids it either buys or sells accordingly so as it's fluctuating you're building up this pot of dollars on the side um depends on what you're trading depends what you're making but i i put some uh a telcoin bot in last weekend and within an hour i'd gained 300 right it's actually pretty a pretty good way to make money if your token's volatile enough. You know, they've got copy trades as well, so you can copy other people's bots, but a lot of people are just relying on the token mooning anyway. But if you've got a token that's just sort of sitting there up and down, up and down, up and down, you can just make passive income from that. You can run a bunch of bots, very low trading fees, and ta-da. So it's a great way to actually make use of probably one of cryptocurrency's current shortcomings. I'm sure there's a lot of arbitrage opportunities. lover absolutely catch what's the catch yeah the cat the catch is it depends on like you know it's up to you how you do this so if you were to put say uh say you'd be doing it with doge right so you'd put it in doge and doge has now gone through the roof ridiculous token but it's gone through the roof your bot will sell all your tokens as it moons right so you'll end up at the top of your range with no holding in doge so if it carries on mooning you won't be in that token you won't get any profits from that. So you have to keep your eyes, you know, on, you know, have the usual kind of alerts. Likewise, if your token goes to the floor, great, you'll probably make some money on the way down as it goes to the floor. But as it hits,

 it's the bottom of your range, you'll end up holding loads of this token and it just keeps plummeting and plummeting and plummeting. So you need to be conscious. But apart from that, you know, shortfalls, there really aren't very many. You know, it's just like investing. Sounds risky. Well, see, I don't know. It's basically, I've been doing it for a while now and it's pretty good fun, but it's just taking the opportunity of something that, you know, you can do, people have been doing for years, right, buy low, sell high. but it's automating it with the current technological inventions bots and APIs and real-time trading, it's pretty cool Seems too risky for me Yeah, I'm also not putting any I'll put on my finance hat here and say that Arbitrage technically has a risk-free element to it, so you need to be able to make profits risk-free and you're taking risk here. And the risk is specifically that your mean reversion trade, you're betting on things going back to normal in some sense of the word. You mean reversion trade, that's where you make money from. And every time there's a regime change, like what Doge did this week or something cratering to the floor then that is not mean reversion and you lose money on that so you picking up pennies in front of a steamroller essentially there yeah so that's the that's the in in a lot of ways anything that's high shock ratio you're selling an option so you're selling volatility by you're you know you're gaining from the from small volatility but you're selling the wings uh from from high volatility events so is this coming because I don't have a financial background, tell me something here. Is this the same risk that you take if you were just, say, purchasing a token and holding it? Oh, no, absolutely not. It's a different type of risk. You're synthetically... Sorry, I don't know how much to get into here, but you're selling the wings and buying the local volatility. And that's one way to benefit from it, but it's absolutely not arbitrage. It's just a different form of risk-taking. Yeah, arbitrage. is that more like you'd buy two different exchanges, for example? You have to lock it in. Okay. Yeah, they call it arbitrage, but it didn't strike me as arbitrage because when I've done arbitrage before, it's across two exchanges. So I don't know what they're calling it. That's what I thought you were going to say. Yeah. This is different from what I expected Yeah they call it a volatility killer bot basically but for some reason they call it arbitrage as well I not sure why they call it that Well a favorite quote of mine from Nassim Taleb I think is that volatility cannot be created or destroyed. You're just shifting it around. So what you're doing is the more people deploy this bot, the more bots will be pushing things towards the center, which is great, until things don't work. And then everyone removes their bot. So liquidity suddenly disappears. That maximizes the volatility at the wings. So that's the origin behind the phrase that volatility cannot be created or destroyed. Interesting. Scary. And on that note? I have one quick one. This is not a new pick for me, but I keep picking it once a year, it seems, and everyone's just very surprised by it. It's called empty states. Have I picked this before? I don't actually remember. Not on smart radio, I think. Okay. It's empty states. It's a, the URL is mtstat.es. Just try to spell out that. One of those new cool domains. Yeah. And it's a reminder to, it's some inspiration on what you can do with your empty states, because the developers always leave their empty states empty, right? When your app starts up you probably have a list somewhere and it empty right And you just show nothing or you show some there nothing here But you could actually show a nice picture a nice like here what you should do You link them to a guide And this is often what your users see the first time they land on your app. So you should probably try to make it inviting. So Webflow recently had an example where they had an empty state in their dashboard. When you first create a Webflow account, it's empty and there's no projects. And they actually have a face here looking at the new project button and say hum that new project button must be important it's like to to where you should go to next and i i like this idea a lot so i want to make sure people know about it this looks uh this looks really uh nice yeah the empty state site this is almost something that ssr can help with as well right because you know you're an aure empty state one of user first visits is is a thing that's been rendered by the server well then you have like a flash of empty state well that's what i made it i don't think you do because you've run you've done data fetching on the server okay yeah if that's the case then yes yeah yeah all right cool cool yeah okay so that's uh that's this uh week's episode and uh we'll uh see you all on svelte summit cool all right yeah this is fun see ya bye see ya