 Hi everyone, welcome to another Svelte Radio episode. We have a lot today, but first let's go to self-intros maybe. Do you want to start as usual, Sean? Sure, I'm Sean, also known as Svelte, so all the S's. Another S, I shit my side project. uh i can't come with any yeses anymore but uh so i was originally meant to be a two-week-long project and then um uh requirements just grew uh so so here we are two and a half months later and i and i finally shipped uh it's a career advice book and it's uh it's called the coding career handbook and it's available on learningpublic.org and that's me should check it out Anthony well what about you cool uh I'm Anthony I'm the CTF Bianc um I'm also a start maintainer um I don't have very many S's but the sun is shining which is rare for this country at the moment it's middle of summer so I'll just I'll go with that that'll be my S's I think oh I used so I used to live in London for two years and my favorite saying my favorite saying was that London has good weather for one month out of the year and it's june and it's june july this this exact period that's pretty much that's that's pretty accurate i mean yeah that's that's pretty spot on i bought a hammock and it's it's rained ever since that was about a week ago that's great yeah so uh i'm uh i'm kevin i run uh svelte school and uh what what have what have i been doing these last few weeks i've been uh doing some uh reconnaissance for uh maybe building like a static site generator another one because why not everyone needs to build one so everyone needs to build one yeah so that's fun um i've been uh yeah i've been just uh I haven't really done much, I think. I'm sure I have, but I don't remember it, like always. But yeah. Anyway, let's get into the topics. Cool. So first up First one yours Yeah Yeah So Svelte Society Day I sure you all remember the last one And I think it was end of April right It went so well. Like, I still don't believe how well it went. I wasn't even sure we were ready for it. And then you just did it. Yeah. Apart from the technical difficulties, it was very nice. No one remembers that. No one does. yeah i should probably just edit that out right so it did give me a strong opinion that every conference every online conference should be pre-recorded because like there's things that you can do while it's playing like i as a speaker i can talk to audience people and it's and it's fine yeah it's really nice so so what we have for you today is a uh an announcement of uh the next Svelte Society Day, end of summer edition. And it's going to take place in the end of September, most likely. There's not a set date yet, but we'll get back to that soon, hopefully. And yeah, I mean, that's it for the Svelte Society Day. Oh, I've got it. We can call it the summer sunda. the word sunder means it means like the end of you know when it's when it's solstice is that is that like the middle of i think it might be the middle yeah it might be the middle doesn't doesn't that have something to do with the moon summer showdown no no it's oh yeah it's the middle it's the middle of the summer right yeah yeah that makes sense all right uh yeah we're all too conversation it starts with c that's how you would see Anthony um I should I just also wanted to note that uh that's pretty much the end of September early October that is the uh one year anniversary of Svelte Society New York London and Stockholm uh so that's the three of us yeah yeah that's pretty nice amazing we'll be one year great great the anniversary sin yeah damn covid we'll try to have more uh we've got we've got france we've got brazil we've got russia we need we need russia actually we definitely need to talk to russia oh yeah yeah yeah uh i in singapore we should probably do singapore yeah svelte society updates updates I guess we can talk about Svelte Society I guess it's pretty much just a Discord moving to the official Svelte Discord. Yeah. Okay. So let's recap a little bit like why the community forked a little bit. I mean, I have my part of the story. I don't know about you guys. but basically I wasn't I wasn't I was I'm I'm not a maintainer I was a I was barely a Svelte user um the only my only my main involvement was just being a friend of Rich and he was going on about this Svelte thing for a year and I ignored him um and then and then the thing that actually got me got me going was that I heard that Svelte London was going to be the first Svelte meetup in the world and I was like that's ridiculous we need one in New York uh so I made one even though I I didn't, I never should spell the production. But I mean, I, you know, and, and yeah, so, so, so I, I mean, like I branded it differently. I didn't, I did not say it's about community as it's about society, mainly for the alliteration, but also. You know, because there already was a community and that was the discord. And then, and, and that, that was it from my side. And then I think, I think, Kev that you, you took over the, you made a discord, right? Yeah, so I pretty much, like a couple of months ago, I think I made the Discord to mostly do website development. Unfortunately, there hasn't been very much development. Well, also the conference, I think, was... Yeah, that's right. Yeah. I think so, yeah. So that Discord pretty much has channels for different meetups and development of the site. but now that's moving to the official Svelte Discord, which is pretty nice. Yeah. Oh, also I made a separate GitHub repo on my own accounts because I didn't have access to the Svelte organization, right? So that's where the community site began is like Svelte-community.netlify.com because I didn't have access to Svelte.dev as well. So they were just like a separate ground up community thing, which is separate from the real community. And then it was just like at some point I think I don know how the conversation got started Maybe Anthony you know you know this one but just always unsure because there was no official community leader or anything so it just kind of ran independently yeah so I think that when I saw it you know I saw the community site I saw the society I realized that a lot of other libraries frameworks whatever have this kind of community section and it's almost part of the official site but it's kind of um you know it's it's not like official docs it's like recipes and tutorials and things are a bit more uh in depth and and you know there's a there's a sort of there's a conscious effort to not try and encourage every plugin in the world integrated who's felt um as an official thing because it's almost as if we're blessing them and saying that you know they are they are you know this sort of guarantee that they'll work or whatever and it's not the case so there's a risk that if we become too closely combined um with you know saying supporting every bundler under the sun people will say well it doesn't work because this x bundler doesn't work or y bundler doesn't work and we don't have the in-house knowledge of how those work so um it's great to have a community site and and keep it sort of sort of arm's length but not quite arm's length uh and so i pitched uh the idea to the rest of the maintainers of making things a bit more conjoined but obviously those were the concerns however now I think it's it's proven that the society part of things is actually quite a nice way of almost beta testing things like the recipes for example are way better than anyone imagined the take-ups been great and the quality of them is very high and you know it's something that could it could almost become official it's just that um you know we don't want to have to have like the maintenance overhead of those so it's up to the community to maintain those um and without then adding you know everybody as a maintainer on Svelte it's nice to have that sort of um sort of blessed unofficial um society arm to Svelte it's it's all about kind of managing expectations of people when they discover the framework and and keeping things I wouldn't say like Apple's walled garden but almost a bit like apples walled garden because you've got this kind of you know a set of things that are guaranteed to work in a predictable way so so yeah i think it's anyway i mean the thing is a lot of people who were very um against the idea of really even pointing to self society as part of felt uh have have recently

 come around quite a lot, you know, given who runs it, you know, you guys are very, you know, very trustworthy. And obviously, I'm kind of weirdly on both sides of the fence, which is odd. But yeah, so it's, I think it's proving itself to be a really useful resource and pretty exciting. So yeah, so the first part is merging the communities together so that people have a way of finding this stuff more easily and making it more discoverable for them. yeah it's gonna be it's gonna be nice we we recently had like uh we've recently had a couple of uh support questions on the on the svelte society discord that should really be in the in the svelte discord yeah so it's nice so yeah is your plan to shut down the svelte discord uh the svelte society discord yeah okay yeah we might as well just just merge it right i think that's for the best like yeah the community as uh as whole as possible if that makes sense i think yeah i never felt i never felt comfortable forking the community either i didn't i didn't really intend to do that so yeah yeah i think i don't think it's i don't think it's a fork it's more like an extension you know it depends on the way that you perceive this sort of stuff i think it feels like an extension um and extensions are welcome i think it's a great it's a great idea um but yeah it's it's better for people i think you know cognitive uh wise that they they have everything in one place so yeah i i so the the thing the comment i'll say about your thing with with the you know uh the the basically it's like a so i think about it you know how trees when they grow they have rings um so it starts growing and it needs more rings uh that's that's my analogy you know like i i do have strong opinions that like uh when you grow a language like swells a language and you grow a language you need a lot of meta language around it uh the reacts core team when they initially grew react this is their like every single core team member knew how important this was and they prioritized it like they intentionally grew the meta language around the language um so when i you know started being interested in svelte i I immediately saw this as like the main thing. Like, like if it's the scale, it's not the code, it's the community. That's very valid. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah. So that that's been the thesis. Yeah. Makes sense Cool All right Now we have recipe pages galore So recently we had a couple of So first we had a PR doing an actual page out of the recipes repo, which was pretty unfortunate in a sense, because at the same time I was actually making the website for it, like at that very, very time. So if you're interested in contributing, please reach out to us first. It's easier to, if we all work together and it doesn't waste time for anyone that way. But it was nice seeing someone caring about the recipes page. There was also this other recipe page, right? yeah the uh the related one Amelia's yeah exactly that was the one that was really cool looking site everything she does is amazing just everything so I think yeah it's only got like three recipes or something but they're cool but then they also like present very well we might just ask her to yeah yeah yeah might be good she actually bought the the domain svelte.recipes like i feel like that's such an obvious thing yeah that's nice it's a nice domain isn't it um so just just out of interest you know where where are we with with having the recipes publish as a site for people to visit so so at the at the moment you can visit, I think it's, yeah, staging.sveltesociety.dev. And that has, it has like a really bare bones page. And I've yet to fix the visual bugs on it. So don't expect to read the code in any good manner. It's a work in progress. But if you're interested in helping out, you can reach out to me and we can start working on that nice yeah and they can reach you on the discord yes i at kev um i don have the the elephant avatar anymore i realized i probably used to say the same one everywhere People were getting confused I should do the same thing Yeah All right Yeah You know, people, I feel like so the main thing for us, so, you know, when we started recipes, the thesis was like, this contains everything that people ask very frequently, but is not relevant for the docs because they'll make the docs too long or too bloated, right? Like this is just like practical use cases that everybody has. so really like you could probably figure it out if you read the docs enough and you were smart and you'd spend a lot of time or you could just go to recipes and copy and paste so i think um that was my goal is just copy and paste like yeah yeah i think a lot of the a lot of the things people have have turned into recipes of being born from actual projects that already exist um it's just the discoverability of these projects is difficult you know you're searching GitHub and trying to find the right thing there. So to have them in one place makes a lot of sense. Yeah, we're not breaking any ground by having these recipes existing. It's more that it's nice to have a little walkthrough of why decisions were made and how they were made, how to do it yourself, where to sort of look at different alternatives as you're doing those, but also just discoverability like the components, you know, the components page as well. One place to search and find and compare and contrast is much better than trying to search the internet and try and search Google for them stuff. Yeah. And that's also actually a part of the upcoming Swell Society website. Sadly, it also has to be developed, of course, but at some point, as usual. Anyway, let's move on. No, it takes work. And I think you don't have to do everything yourself, but you do need to tell people what help you need yeah always i'm always i'm always very clear like yes if you want help you have to tell people what you need otherwise people don't really know what what to help you with the same thing for me like with this with the with the recipes i have to consciously say like here we need help here mark this is a good first issue and then people come in but like if they're not if they don't feel like they're welcome to come in then they don't know way to start that's very true yeah all right let me get off my soapbox let uh let talk about uh sweet or uh yeah plus uh wheat so so i don know i don know anything about anything about this You want to fill us in Yeah So this is pretty much a project made by a guy that frequents the Routify Discord They've been talking a lot about bundler stuff over there. So I guess naturally Vite ended up on the table as some sort of solution to some problem. And so this is pretty much a plugin for Vite. So you can use Svelte and Vite. And if you don't know what Vite is, it's like a no bundler project, I think, from Evan U of Vue. And so this pretty much just allows you to do HMR and pretty much use VEAT as your development kind of environment. I tried it out. It works very well. And I encourage you to check it out. So it's interesting. I'm looking at the repository now and there's a GIF at the top, which is, you know, it looks like a regular GIF, just sort of scrolling out, writing letter by letter, flashing colors and stuff. And just below it just says every change in that GIF is a separate hot module reload, which is just mind blowing. That's fast. Yeah. That's really fast. Yep. I wonder what machine he's using. Is it a supercomputer? He actually made a benchmark for this and he asked some people to run it. And so I think I have a fairly powerful machine. And I don't know why, but it runs pretty slowly on mine. He's blaming Apple file system. And I have no idea. I don't know anything about that. But yeah, it's a cool little project. You can check it out. And it's like almost zero config as well, which is... Yeah, that's good. I was surprised when I first tried it. This just needs a bit of SAPA support somewhere. Yeah.

 yeah all right um uh well so uh i hate to be the guy but does it support typescript i mean if if svelte supports it it supports all the pre-processors and stuff so i'm i'm sure it somehow supports it i haven't tried oh man yeah we're gonna try this that's that's the thing like I'm very excited about Dino because everything in the Dino ecosystem supports TypeScript, so I don't have to ask. And there's no weird config. It just works. Anyway. I've been meaning to try Dino lately, especially for the static site generator I was talking about. But we'll see. I'll be honest. I've not thought about trying it. I've not. I looked at it. if whatever you're using works well i mean that's it's fine yeah yeah i've moved from type languages to non-type languages and i'm quite happy with non-type languages it's uh it's an easier life for me less typing yeah literally that is true all right let's uh let's talk about this book. There's a new book called Cloud Native Web Development and it's made by a guy called Mike Nicholas, I think. Oh, yeah. So it's pretty much how you build a full project using different technologies and I think he uses Svelte and Zapper as a front-end technology. with tail tailwind css and then he uses some some cloud stuff on the back end that i haven't really taken a look at yet i see him quite around the discord quite a lot actually i think and on twitter yeah it's pretty he's uh he's quite active yeah is this a orally book or something like that i think it's self-published uh oh really okay yeah yeah it's uh i'm gonna look it up yeah yeah yeah during the break I was just explaining that so I was singing during the break because Anthony walked away and then I explained that I actually sang the theme song for Babbel and you guys are very interested in that Very much interested I found the lyrics I mean, don't you think that transpilers need theme songs? That's pretty obvious, no? Of course. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yes. Now you mention it. Of course. It's not something I've thought about, but yeah, why not? Why hasn't Svelte got a theme song, Kay? Someone's got a right one. You need to get on it. You need to get on that shot. So I like doing song parodies. But no, this one was not written by me. This was written by Angus Crow from Uber. I think he works at now. He also wrote Just. He wrote Just? No, he wrote Just. There's a library called Just, which is like Lodash in little pieces. They're like no dependency Lodash. It's amazing. I use it everywhere because it obviously doesn't add to the bundle size. I've never heard of this guy before, but now you've mentioned him. I know him. Yeah. Well, he's the cow guy. He's an interesting, I think he's like kind of old school JavaScript, you know, like he was probably like around when like, you know, early node days. And then I think he's kind of left the scene more or less. I mean, he still uses JavaScript. He's just not super active. I've met him in San Francisco and he's very nice. He still organizes a meetup and everything. He's just, you know, he's checked out of JavaScript Twitter. So good for him. but um he wrote this thing for fun he wrote this he wrote this parody for fun and then i saw it it was so good and and so i sang it and it was christmas um and then henry liked it so much he made it the the intro for his his talks so when he walks on stage it's my voice uh and then for the babble podcast he also plays my voice and the problem is like it's a very loud and mournful song it's it's hallelujah um it's a very sad song but he likes it i just think it's like like the wrong mood i don't know yeah yeah we got it we got a link to this somehow yeah just just google babble theme song it's there all right we can we can add that to links we'll definitely add that to links called yeah hallelujah in praise of babble All right. So, yeah. Next topic. Is it Pix or JungleJS? I think it JungleJS first Yeah Pix is at the end What JungleJS Oh right So JungleJS is something that I saw someone mention in the Svelte channel thinking well, that's not very relevant to Svelte. I'll have a look at that. And it turns out it is. It's a pure Svelte, appears to be like a static site generator focused on Jamstack. so it's it looks pretty you know it it's kind of appeared out of nowhere it looks pretty established and nice and people are using it and i actually really want to try it um but yeah like a really a really nice alternative to building uh jump stack apps um the name is misleading it is it is it is purely svelte which is quite amazing so uh worth worth checking out yeah it seems like a very nice lightweight way of making static apps um i think it focuses um it focuses on building static apps in a different approach to sapper so the sapper approach is you build your app as regular and then and then you run export and it crawls your app and gets all the pages out i think what jungle js does from what i understand is it kind of does it on the fly it does it um as you're building so you're getting an incremental static build uh which means uh it's probably more appropriate for static sites that are static but have um frequent content updates so you're building it on ci um obviously if you've got a blog and someone adds a blog post edits a blog post you you were in sapi you would export that whole blog and then publish that whereas i believe with jungle js it would just do an incremental build of just whatever that changes and then publish that so you can get a much faster turnaround time for the content i think at least for what I understand. Yeah, I think also one of the key features is the data fetching. So he's using a preprocessor to fetch data. So it feels kind of more like how you would build a site in Gatsby probably. Yeah, it does mention that sort of thing actually. It says you can use any CMS you want, like WordPress or Airtable or JSON or Git or anything you like. And it's going to use GraphQL as well, which is another thing that probably is something that SAP doesn't really focus on. And then it'll publish your sites to static hosts, such as AWS Amplify, Surge, GitHub Pages, you name it. So yeah that pretty cool actually I really want to try it out but I haven got an exact use case just yet Yeah All right I like it. I think this is your topic, Sean. You recently launched a book, right? This is me, right? Yeah. Okay, so... What's it built in? Ah, okay, yeah. So, website's building, Svelte, and MD Specs, and Tailwind. what what i'm just doing weird noises sorry go ahead oh i really want a soundboard uh if we have a sponsor we we can sponsor soundboards i want to i want to like air horns like um so my co uh my co-worker from netlify uh rafa he was he was just he'd do this all the time in like company all hands it's just really it's really funny uh let me let me just get let me just get this uh no okay there we go oh wow okay anyway i won't i won't do that too much um anyway so uh so yeah uh you know i think first first like first time really sort of shipping anything for money for for myself uh you know not not on behalf of any company um and uh when it was felt of course um And I really liked, so something I did not appreciate about Svelte until like you really have to, you know, iterate on a site is what I'm starting to call like the incremental upgrade workflow. So when you build a site, you design HTML and CSS in small self-contained components, right? And then you just like kind of piece them all together. And then you like start to play. Like once you have this static site experience up, then you start to play with things. you start to add animations and you start to add um javascript like you know uh transitions and so for example i use the svelte motion store um to do tweening um and that that is a simple upgrade from like the normal svelte site and you just like upgrade the level of experience as you go along and there's no change in tooling and no change in sort of mindset uh no decision fatigue so that's that's what I was tweeting out. Like I realized that, you know, to do what I would do in Svelte with, with reacts, like I would have to go through and decide a whole bunch of things. And they would all not fit together very well. And probably the,

 JavaScript weight will be pretty high because they all, you know, ship the minimum. I mean, you know, they all ship some amount of dependency whereas Svelte does not. So yeah, I mean, that's, that was my main sort of realization. Like I've like, you know, I theoretically knew this, but like this was me living it. And then I think the combination, like I think some people question like since Svelte has, you know, scope styles, like why do we need something like Tailwind? And I think my answer to that is just try building a big component in Svelte. You have to go up and down and up and down and up and down so much. And then like, I'm definitely duplicating. Like, I think I had font weight bold 10 times in my app. Like you're duplicating styles, right? Like, and the whole point of utility styles is that you're doing it once. And, and it's, and every time you apply it, you know exactly where it goes. You don't have to shift anywhere. You just like go to the element and you put it there. you can even go to your like well when you're in development you can even go to your browser and just type in the class name in the browser and see update live and once you're only once you're happy with everything you copy and paste the entire class from the browser into uh the source code and that's it that's your your design in the browser and you can bring it back so um i think tailwind and svelte kind of go well together i think tailwind just goes well with anything so it's really it's really nice um like you still use svelte for like stuff that tailwind does not have to win doesn't cover everything so you for like super custom stuff you use fault but I think tailwind has been a pretty big help I think yeah that's my that's my assessment yeah I also use the begin begin commis is a is a nice hosting provider and technically I work for a different hosting provider but I think for I think for small projects I think begins actually pretty good like they offer, you know, serverless functionality. They offer like a nice static site hosting. But then also the serverless functionality has a data component, like they wrap DynamoDB. So I couldn't do things like analytics tracking. So when I launched some Hacker News, which by the way, went to like number five. So I needed some potential, you know, capacity. And obviously it just took, it took all the volume, really traffic really well. And I could track things like, okay, this source was some hacker news and they clicked on this thing and I don need to track anything else you know but it was it was all custom rolled analytics and I could I could tell enough for my purposes I could do like affiliate tracking And it was all in that same tool set within begin. So your hosting provider should provide all these things, you know, that's pretty cool. And it's, and it's, and it should be as easy as like, use this function, like increment this counter. That's it. Like there's no schema set up or anything. You just, you're just like, you know, storing basic pieces of information. Of course, if you want to build something more complex, then yeah, use, use whatever dedicated database provider but if you just need a kv store then yeah use begin yeah that's good to know because it's go ahead i should say it's often hard to find you know you can you can find any number of static hosting providers or even even dynamic hosting providers nowadays several if you name it but the thing that there's never there or is kind of an add-on for for some sort of monthly fee or subscription is is the key value store um and the ones that uh the sort of free key value stores that exist outside of that don't instill much confidence in me. They're often kind of very amateurish looking sites that, you know, might disappear tomorrow. So it's good to know actually. Yeah. I mean, to be clear, you know, Amazon does this too. It's just that there's probably more config because they try to, they try to let you do more. Whereas begin is very constrained to that use case. Like it's a, it's a, it's a big object. You stick whatever key, whatever value you want, that's it. And then you have some utility functions. one more thing I didn't mention which I think it's killer so they do they take your cookies cookies for you like cookies and sessions sessions so normally normally in serverless you don't use sessions you use JWTs which have other security issues but since they write this the cookie layer and session layer management for you everything's handled so they parse everything for you and then by the time you get you you get it within your service function it's all taken care of so you just know uh what this user is and does and you can write a very simple authentication solution just comparing this the user string it's really convenient i think i've been i've been tinkering with uh cloud cloud slayer workers oh yeah their kv store probably does the same thing yeah yeah so so i've i've actually i'm actually hosting the staging site for Svelte Society on a Cloudflare worker. So it hosts, so it like puts everything in a KV store, like all the files. And it makes it really easy to like do, because since it a worker that handles like all the requests you can do authentication do authentication into worker pretty pretty easily so i yeah on svelte school i been i been tinkering with adding auth zero like on the on the back end rather than on the front end and just running it in the in the cloud worker so it's pretty neat it's it's five bucks a month though but it's fine it's five bucks yeah exactly well so the thing when i when i worked at nullify the thing that actually scared me off the club fair workers was um they kept saying that club fair workers kv store was uh eventually consistent and sure of course like it's a distributed thing but i didn't know if that meant like five milliseconds or five minutes and sometimes you some things you can't write for if it's like five minutes latency or something, you know? So, uh, now, now I'm a lot less, now I'm a lot less concerned because, because like, like, like DynamoDB is like nine milliseconds latency. So, uh, which by the, which FYI, uh, the latency from your head to your, to your fingertips is nine milliseconds because, uh, electricity travels at 110, uh, meters per second. Wow. I got that from John Carmack, uh, who he worked like this matters because if you're working on 60 frames per second right like your your human interface then you have 16 milliseconds for your input frame and nine of that is your arm oh right interesting so you just cannot do that much with uh with 16 you know so yeah and now there's 144 hertz coming and 300 and i think i saw you're not getting that in vr i mean john carmax works on vr that's why he cares okay That makes sense. All right. So we have the showcase section now, right? Yeah. So I want to start with a thing called PodLP, which is a podcast player for something called KaiOS, which I had never heard of. But apparently it's like a mobile OS for really, really low-end devices. Nice. And so he built this podcast player in Svelte. And now it's on the Kai store. That doesn't mean very much to me, but I guess it like the Play Store or the App Store Looks nice and it it one of those cases where where it really shows how how light svelte is that you can actually do this absolutely yeah it's a perfect use case for it isn't it it runs on a nokia phone yeah i need to know it runs on a lot of a lot of old looking phones that's really cool but oh i see i see there's a whole range here oh okay yeah on the site yeah so i think we we we joke a bit about it but i think this this really is this matters for a lot of people yeah yeah being able to absolutely yeah i think i think where you go too far so rich was trying to last year rich was trying to push this whole thing about like if you can use less power you like save the earth um oh right and he like uh in his uh barcelona that's where that's where i hung out with him uh in his barcelona talk he was like he had all these images like the earth is burning and we need to use felt to save the earth um so i wouldn't go that quite that far but yeah i i think it's important to work on embedded devices and i think i so i i'm more in line with the like embedded devices are cool uh we should we should you know be able to write uh you know uis in in javascript on them and uh well perfect for that let's think about this if you can make low-end devices have a longer shelf life you know like a longer life then yes you're not producing new phones then i understand there's a bigger impact right i think that's reasonable it's just it's It's just about order of magnitude, man. That's all. All right. So next up, we have someone launched an unofficial Svelte newsletter. And I think it's just like a roundup of what's happened, what's coming up, bug fixes, stuff like that. So there's two. I think there's two newsletters now, isn't there? Yeah. There's one that I've been receiving for a while. Yeah. Does that still get published? I haven't seen it. I think I saw it recently. Maybe I imagined it. All right. So, I mean, Peter Cooper runs that one, I think. And he's a professional newsletterist. I imagine he knows how to do these things. Okay. But I mean, this is not bad.

 If this is the first issue, it's pretty good. Yeah. Yeah, they got some of that stuff in there. All he has to do is keep it up. Which is the hard part. Yeah. That's cool. Yeah. Okay. Svelte India, July. What is this? So it's not actually called Svelte India, but it's Techno Guys Meetup, and it's organized by someone in India. I think it's an existing meetup in India. Not that that actually matters because everything's online these days. But the time zones and the content may be localized. It's on July 18th, and you can sign up on the link that we're going to provide here. It's a meetup.com thing, but I think it's like a Zoom call. And yeah, more spelt meetups all around the world. Yep. Nice. The next one here is the Pokedex. So, I mean, this is just a Pokemon, I don't know, like an index of cards, I guess. I don't know much about Pokemon, unfortunately. but it you know it's pretty colors it sort of stuck out to me um it's quite nice it's got okay can we can we like can we circle back on this how do you not know much about pokemon what what's well i played pokemon go once that was fun for a while you know a few months beyond that i mean i don't i don't know it's not really had much of an appeal to me or why would it what sell me Pokemon. It's got Pikachu. Why sure? It's a mouse and it says Pika. Right. I mean, I've sold Sean. Yeah. All right. I mean, this, this side looks cool. There's, you know, I think this is like a basic, it's like a starter project for a lot of things. And I've, but I like, I always like seeing the different implementations. He's got some animations on this thing. Um, I think that's, he's got search and all that. So, I like this what's this style they call that Apple used to use a lot where things look real, I can't remember the name of the way they do it skeuomorphic skeuomorphic, that's the one, it's got that kind of I quite like that, you know the kind of touch and feel is really nice does this count as skeuomorphic? I mean it kind of does because I'm visualizing picking up a card and kind of it turning in my hand as I pick it up and I can see the shadow appears, that kind of thing it appeals to me because it's it's a really quite a nice ux um it's an it's an easy win it's kind of low fruit for ux but it to give it that real feel is quite a nice way of doing things Is this like a single box shadow Is that what going on I think it looks like a box shadow Yeah There is a slight jerkiness when you first pick up the card. Maybe that could be imperative, but yeah, when it's turning, it's got quite a nice shadow effect. It's like you've pulled the card out of the deck. I don't know how you animate this. Yeah. Basically it just like toggles on the box shadow and then it turns. I don't know how you animate from no box shadow to box shadow that's an interesting one i don't know how to i don't know if it's if it's yeah if it's transitionable maybe it maybe it is maybe it's not probably not maybe if there was a zoom zoom to start with and then it twisted that would be better yeah yeah yeah it's cool cool uh more side projects this one is uh textmoji um from post light uh so textmoji is how you know how in slack uh everyone has these like small little custom emojis the problem is sometimes you want to make your own emojis and uh you might you might have some trouble doing that so they made it this app that's custom built just to just to write some text so i can type in svelte in here and now i have this custom emoji i copy and paste and put on my slack it's pretty or discord it's probably worse for discord so this is made in svelte yeah it's made in svelte look at the source um and the guy who was on it uh what's his name um i'm terrible at this i i heard i heard him from uh the changelog podcast and he talked about it in length so that's like a one-hour discussion on on why they pick svelte uh postlight's a very good uh agency type thing uh i follow paul ford who's one of the i guess partners on on it and uh he he works there and so I tend to pay attention to post-light projects and TextMuji was the latest one. They just have these like random hack days where they just hack these things together. So yeah. I think this is how it starts, you know, like people when they're interested in things, they try it on small projects and then they're like, okay, I like the feel of it. Let's put it on a big thing. So I try to track these things. Yeah. All right. Then the last one for me is Svelte Society France, not fans, France, has a new Twitter. So that's Svelte Society FR. The duo I think it Karine and I forget the other guy name K6 And yeah they running this It's all French all the time. That's all I know. Yeah. And they're organizing the conference. They have a date. It's on the 27th of September. I put the announcement link there if you want to share it. And they're also running a CFP until August 17th. that's all i know because i don't speak french but uh hopefully we can get some people for them i think it'll be it'll be it'll be nice it's going to be around the same time as the svelte society day i think um yeah that's great build some momentum all right so um let's see what's next so we have this felt this felt announcement this felt announcement yeah what is this well who knows um so you know i i guess the anticipation you know is that well i i mean maybe i don't know who knows could be there could be um i guess i guess the anticipation is is a little longer than originally anticipated does that make any sense yeah so are you announcing that we are postponing the announcement and then we're going to announce again in the future i'm announcing that the best way to get the announcement is to watch for the announcement um because yeah because who knows what it could be that's all i got all right let's let's move on to the to the maintainers meet then yeah so uh yeah i mean kind of where we decided this this announcement thing really but we we started to start doing a video conference of all the maintainers uh together um on a on a on a frequent basis as as allowable um just because we've got obviously now we've got some sort of big ticket issues we're trying to triage a lot of the um the existing prs and issues into a into a uh into an into an order where we could figure out what is the most important thing to a the community what's the biggest and most important thing um for the framework um but also you have to factor in a bit of what is likely to get worked on because obviously um it all very well saying you know let say feature x is really important but if nobody of the maintainers is is has any experience of it or uses it day to day or has any you know desire to work on it then it probably not going to get that much attention so um it's trying to find a way to to bring in what we can um leverage uh people's pr's and commits where we possibly can bring those in um and we had a a list of probably like 16 items and to be honest we only got through a couple maybe maybe three because you know this is this is a two hour two hour meeting um just because there's so much to discuss with each of these but the nice thing is the things we did discuss the first one was was slots just overall there's a lot of open prs and slots a lot of questions uh documentation bugs around how they work uh undocumented ways that they work and they probably should or shouldn't or it should be documented or removed or fixed or whatever. So that was a big thing. So there should be some movement on that soon and trying to get slots into some sort of final format. And then the other thing we discussed was around SAPA and what is SAPA, what does SAPA want to be, what can it be? And I think kind of the crux of that discussion was we should probably look at modularizing it. there's already a movement in that direction with uh the notion of pulling out the router and making a separate router project perhaps um but is is is sapa too tightly integrated is that the right approach should it be pulled apart should it be tightly integrated and opinionated and that's that you know we're already trying to support say webpack and and roll up in in sapa um you know that shows that maybe we we don't want it to be too strongly opinionated but is that the case um it does it have too much crossover with other projects that that maybe solve problems better than it let's use uh you know rootify or or jungle js as an example they're very specific down a certain direction um does sapa want to try and be the be all and end all to everything or does it want to have a specific use case and should it be more focused on that so so obviously endless endless discussion can can happen on these things um but we tried to make some of these things actionable so that we can start to progress through getting some things that are important to people signed off and sealed and done and dusted. So yeah, so it was a productive meeting, but we have plenty more items to discuss on that. So we'll catch up in a few more.

 Yeah, that sounds great. Go ahead, John. Oh, yeah, good. I think this has been something that I have wanted, but I wasn't able to, I mean, it's not for me to say, but I thought that Svelte governance needed to step up if companies are going to trust Svelte with their front ends. They need to see that there's some action going on. it's weird because none of them are paying for it but people still have to do it if you want this thing to take on to the next level then the way it's about to run has to change yeah absolutely you know it's it's it's something that's that's difficult because obviously no one has that time resource to dedicate 100 time to it and in fact we don't probably don't want to do that because when you start to dedicate 100 of your time to something you lose track of what the reality is um you're completely focused in on the framework itself and you're not focusing on real world use cases as much so so yes a tough one but um but definitely there's movement in that direction which is which is great yeah cool i'm happy sounds good uh i think then we're down to picks yes yeah so i can go first i uh if you're uh if you're if you've ever used a mac with a third party mouse that has side buttons you probably know that they never work out of the box you can like in windows for example you can go back and forth in the browser just by touching the side buttons so i found this small little uh app called sensible side buttons has a pretty apt name um and it just enables pretty much going back and forth for example on websites using the side buttons, which is a very nice feature when, once you actually use it. So that's mine. Does mine have that? No. I've got one. Okay. Hang on. Yeah, I've got one. So it's called Twitter links. It's a Chrome extension that has not been published. So you have to down, you have to get clone and then you, you use it in Chrome and so what this does for you is that any page you're linking any page you're currently reading you can click that Chrome extension and then it pops up to show you all the Twitter discussion that's related to it it just performs a search on the URL so I use this almost every day to find like if I'm reading something I find that I want to find the author I want to credit them or give them feedback or I want to see what other people who know more than me can say about it. So it's kind of like the, it's like a meta discussion layer for the web The creator is Maxim He actually a designer I only know him off of off of Twitter but he seems uh like a pretty I don know pretty clued in like tech person Uh I'm meeting with him next week to, to just get acquainted, but like, uh, this is a, it's a cool project. It took, it took like maybe 10 lines of code, but I use it basically every day. So that's my pick. Um, I guess my pick would be foam. Um, I'm sure everyone's already heard of it, but it's like, uh, I haven't used it. No, but it's something that sort of maybe a weekend thing to look into. Um, it's basically like a personal organization system for your own thoughts and your own development, but it goes inside visual studio code. Um, I believe it's based on Rome research, um, which is some sort of similar product, but like very much more kind of, um, uh, this one's built using tools you probably already have on your machine, especially if you're a developer, but more kind of an open source approach to something quite enterprising maybe. But yeah, it's got a lot of stars on GitHub and a lot of interest on Twitter. So I'll give it a go this weekend and see what happens. Yeah, sounds good. Built by Yanni, who is Finnish. So that's a competition for you, Kevin. No, he's a good guy. He very very funny Oh my God He is when he when he wants to be sometimes I think lately he been he been like in a not funny mode but when he wants to be he can be extremely funny Nice. I think we're all in a non-funny mode. I know. These last few months, right? By the way, we just crossed the 50% mark of the year because this is a leap year. Oh no. Yeah, so we just crossed 50%. We're half done. it's downhill from here let's hope it gets better right it's getting better we have regular maintainers we're healing nature is healing Svelte is healing all is good yeah let's go with that I like that who wrote this are we serious about this next time I think it's the one thing. Oh, that's the next time. Yeah. That's the next time. You want to promise this? Well, you know, let's lose our next time. We have under two minutes. We're crossing the under two minutes mark left. So let's... Yeah, let's wrap up. It's probably a good idea. All right. So yeah, see you guys next time. I think this is a good discussion as always. I always enjoy this. And I think Spel's coming along. It's coming along. It's very exciting to see. Super exciting. All right. Take care guys. Cool. Thank you. Bye everyone. Bye.