 Hey everyone, welcome back and let's talk about global state with classes. And I think you're really going to like this because essentially we get the same result here, except we have to write a lot less code, which is really nice. Now, as a quick reminder, we are using a .svelte.js file. Now you could just as easily use a .svelte.ts file, but for this example, I'm going to keep it as basic as possible and just stick with this .svelte.js file. okay and inside our component we're just importing counter we're displaying that value and we're incrementing with onclick handler that's it now let's go ahead and start implementing this class and as you see it is a lot less code which is really nice okay so now that we have our class in place i'm just going to go ahead and kind of change this up a bit because i want to be importing counter and I'm gonna instantiate this class and I'm gonna want to use that name counter so let's go ahead and do that really quickly okay here we are perfect now there's a little bit of a gotcha here so we have the value being displayed properly but increment is not working so that kind of interesting and when we working with classes we going to need to pass in an arrow function or really just any function for that matter but arrow functions are nice And we need to use these parentheses to invoke this method here. So as you see, now we're finally getting that reactivity, and everything is working properly. Now, if you kind of wanted to, you know, tighten this up a bit or, you know, you want to kind of instantiate it here and then export that, you can go ahead and do so. So let's go ahead and do that really quickly. Here we are. Perfect, perfect. And let's go ahead and change this up a bit. Oops, and you know what I'm going to have to do? I'm going to have to get rid. Oh, let me just count. I'll just comment this out really fast. Okay, perfect. And counter. Awesome. And here we are. We are back. So as you see, this is a really simple way of implementing global state, especially if your state is going to live outside of the component hierarchy. So I hope you got something out of this video. If you did, go ahead and give us a thumbs up and I will see you in the next one.