 Hey everyone, welcome back and let's talk about all of these file types in SvelteKit. So my wish for this video is that we build up our middle model properly, we understand how data is flowing, and kind of the nuances of some of these file types. So let's go ahead and kick this off using the pluspage.js. And remember, if you're using any of these files here and something's off, it's just not working, it's probably because you don't have that plus sign there. So that's required in the file name. All right, so let's just hop into our blogs route here. And the best way to think about these two file types is that we are gathering information or gathering data to feed to our plus page.svelte file, okay? And you're gonna see that in a second. So let me just go ahead and add plus page.js. I'm just going to paste in a kind of like an abbreviated example that we see in the docs here. So as you see, I'm returning title and content. That's it. And this load function is what's going to feed our plus page dot Svelte file, you know, some data. Okay. Now, now that we have this in place, right? Really, really basic. We're kind of just hard coding this. the way we're going to get that data out of um you know out of that load function essentially is we're going to come in here and we can say let data and we're not going to do this properly right off the bat because i want you guys to see a little bit of a pain point here so we're going to do props right because we're using svelte 5 okay great and i'm just going to go ahead and inspect this so we can all see it. Oops, inspect. Perfect. And let's take a look at data. Nice. And let's just hop in here and I'll refresh. And as you see, we're getting our data, which is really cool. Okay. And so if we want to get some of this data on the screen here, let me just go ahead and I'm going to make an H2 tag and let's put data and you're going to see this is where the problem comes in, right? Then you gotta do data.data.title, okay? And as you see, we get that hello world. So the way we're gonna refactor this is we're just going to destructure. Oops there we are And now we can just get this or remove this and now we going to get our result but it going to be a bit cleaner Okay So what you need to understand is that the pluspage.js file, it's going to run on the server, and it's going to run on the client. So you are not going to put anything like a database call here or any time you're using environment variables. You don't really want to be doing that. okay that's where you can kind of turn this in to a dot page dot server file okay and so this is only gonna run on the server and it's going to you know this is going to feed that plus page dot svelte file the same exact way and as you see once we refresh we're getting the same amount of data so So if you're doing something sensitive, environment variables are involved, database trips are involved, do that in a page.server.js file. Okay? All right. So now that we've talked about those first two, let's go ahead and get into layout.svelte. So this is pretty cool. And if you have any, like, markup that you want to add to all of the routes, and by the way, you can have a .layout.svelte file. you know, inside particular routes, and then it's going to be kind of scoped to that route in a sense. So you can put this anywhere, but we're just going to do this at the, you know, at the root level of our routes, because, you know, we get this right out of the box. And so let's just make an H1, and we're going to say, hello, everyone, just like that. Okay, nice and easy. And so even if we're in our slash blogs route, you're seeing we're getting hello, everyone. Okay. And if you go ahead and take a look at this code here, it's kind of no surprise, right? We're just rendering out the children. So any type of children that this layout or this plus layout.svelte file is going to have, it's going to show, right? Pretty simple. Now, if you take a look at this layout.js file, if you want any data to be loaded in the layout and then available to the children, well, this is where you're going to put it. A good example of this is like maybe perhaps user data in a sense And once again if you are kind of pulling data kind of like user data and you want to be careful about that you don want to be doing that in the client Obviously that super dangerous You get a ton of warnings So you know that also kind of a another line of defense Do that in a layout file That's only going to run on the server. Okay, but let's kind of like fake some of this code here. so let's just or fake some of this data i should say so i'm gonna do uh plus layout dot js oh you know what shoot this should have been i am so sorry this should have been js obviously okay there we go now everything's set okay so now let's go ahead and make an example out of this i'm just going to kind of throw this in here just like we did last time except i am going to change this up and we'll just say like test and we'll say how are you just something really basically just to kind of prove a point here and so we're doing this in plus layout.js okay and you already see it popping up okay which is great and so we're in blog right here so you know we're kind of down the routing here at one level okay because remember this is the home page and this is kind of the base layout, but we're in this blog folder. And as you see, test, how are you? So we're kind of passing down the data at that layout. And so instead of doing like a bunch of magic inside your plus page.js file for every single one of those routes, which is gonna be kind of difficult to maintain in a sense, well, you can just put it in one place and then all of those sub routes or subfolders are going to receive that, which is really, really nice. Okay, so we have covered all of these essentially. Now, this is cool. Let's talk about plus error.svelte. Now, this is going to be scoped to the route itself, okay? So let's go ahead and just kind of like make an error here. I am gonna go, let's do it at the base level and then we'll talk about doing it at the route level. Okay, so I'm going to do plus error.svelte. Nice. Okay, we'll just do another H1, and we'll say, oops, goodness, what's happening there? We'll go with, okay, just like that. And we maybe say we have a problem Okay so that is saved Now what you need to understand here the important part is that this error is only going to be rendered on the screen when we have an error in our load function, okay? So, going back here, if we, and I'm just gonna comment this out just to kind of force this error here, okay? If we go back, we have a problem. Okay, great. That works. Now, what I can do also is maybe that's like our kind of like base error, and we want to kind of have a little more scoped error here. So we're inside that blog folder, and let's once again, error.svelte, bingo. and let's just make another, oops, h1, and we'll say we have a problem with the blog. Okay, I'm going to save that, and you're going to see that it's going to catch that error file. It's going to render that first because we're in that particular folder, right? That's where that error is occurring. So if SvelteKit does not find a plus error.svelte file, it's going to keep going up in the levels to try to find one of those. And then once it finds that first one, it's going to be displayed. Okay? And so our last file here is a plus server.js file. Now, I'm going to make another video on how we can implement this in depth. but this is basically an API route. That's it, all right? So if you wanted to make another route and I'm gonna say like API, okay, and maybe I can make another folder and I'll just kind of make something up on the fly, update user, okay. I can come in here and make a plusserver.js file, okay? And this is going to be like an API route. Okay, so that's a little brief introduction. I hope that you've kind of built up your mental model around this and we've kind of demystified some of these file types. I really love how data flows through all these files. I hope it helped you out. If it did, go ahead and give us a thumbs up and I will see you in the next one.