 Welcome to Svelte Radio. Welcome everyone to another episode of Svelte Radio. We are back after a hiatus. this is usually how it goes nowadays we we don't record as often as we we would like but we are back as i said and today i have a guest it's julian burgess today did i get it right that's it that's it all right cool cool so julian you are a long time svelte veteran or so i i i understand it to be at least maybe uh maybe tell us well what's your what's your story what do you do for maybe first off yeah um so i kind of work at uh i currently work at well i've been working at bloomberg now for over 10 years and i'm in their graphics team on the sort of engineering side and so that's a mix of kind of like looking after for extremely full stack where it's kind of like looking after the servers figuring out sometimes sort of dns and cdn issues um and then also actually working on the graphics themselves and sort of the data pipelines and things like that and uh so with that i've been using svelte for a long time i think since version two which i think is sort of almost technically the beginning because i think version one was sort of rich kind of threw it in the bin almost as soon as it was ready and sort of like was like straight onto version two um and it was funny actually because i i almost worked with rich as well it's a bit of a sort of regret or sort of sad thing in my mind that um rich was uh working at the guardian and here in London? Oh yes he was in the London office and was transferring uh to the New York office and so we were chatting a bit about that and um and yeah so then I got the job at Bloomberg and so I left not long after just before he arrived but um he came along to my housewarming actually oh I just I just moved flat at a similar time and so that was the first time I met him um And yeah, he's a, you know... So you go way back then. Yeah, so he's a really nice, you know, warm, lovely person. And I suppose from that, I then started looking at some of his projects. And I was saying earlier I think I used Gobble and I can even I should have looked up what it was I can remember what it even did We have to ask Rich Yeah And there was Splunk which is That's an odd name. Yeah. Well, you know this spelunking is where you kind of go down into a cave. Yeah. And so we actually still use that at work, where it's a kind of, the way it was, we have a modified version of it, but it kind of, it just sort of goes into a folder, and just any file, so sort of text or sort of CSV or JSON or anything it sort of finds, it will kind of append it onto a tree so that you can then sort of use that quite easily within your code because we're using that within a build step, so it doesn't really matter, or it may not matter about the file size in memory at the time when you're doing the build. The output of the build still matters, but it's kind of one of those things where it's nice to just make the, you don't have to worry about loading files, it's just done for you. and I think I played around a tiny bit with Racktiv but never used it so Racktiv is like the predecessor of Svelte one could say and then so I think Rich made the announcement about Svelte and I was like this sounds good and this is Svelte 2 we're talking about and so I tried it out and I think I'm going to have to double check it was either the UK election for 2015 or 2017 I can't remember which year it was because we've had quite a few elections in the UK. And, yeah, the thing which was, I mean, the thing that I think particularly was good was the way that it was, which isn't necessarily, now with the way SvelteKit works, it's sort of different entry points into this, but the way you could have multiple entry points because we wanted to make it where there was the main graphic itself, which shows the sort of overall results, but then we wanted to extract out bits of it to use on a widget for the homepage. and so the homepage gets a lot, lot, lot more traffic than anything else. And so trying to make it very small is of key importance. And I can't remember how, it was really impressively small, like 14K or something like that of the total code that we had. And I think we managed to get the data down to under 1K or something like that as well. I mean, that's almost nothing. Yeah, exactly. And so it was kind of, so you're not sort of worrying about the sort of performance hit or things like that. and it's just kind of grown really so we now the whole team i mean the team has expanded a lot we're close to about 50 people i think across uh sort of london and new york and and uh in asia as well and yeah and i think that it interesting as well as well because obviously React is so big And I looked at React I've never really worked with it. Because we actually, before as well, one of our colleagues used Angular. And so I could see how good it was in terms of being able to make components. But it also seemed like it would quite quickly get into crazy problems with how much rendering was going on. Right. Yeah. And that's not very nice when you're doing some interactive graph. Yeah, and it can be, yes, because particularly with graphics, when you're doing, you're often doing a lot of stuff with SVG, but you can have quite sort of big DOM trees with hundreds or thousands of elements going on. And so, yeah, trying to avoid unnecessary renderers is important, and particularly as well where you have sort of interaction. So if it's sort of like some sort of mouse, You don't want a mouseover to cause the whole tree to be re-rendered. You just want the subtree or whichever bit to do that. I'm guessing that makes you excited about Svelte 5? It does, but I think there's a lot of uncertainty and skepticism. Because I think with that as well, the thing which, again, was also a big attraction to me was that Svelte looks a lot like HTML, regular HTML with a script tag and a CSS. I assume in Svelte 2 it was even like HTML files? if I remember correctly. Yes, I think you could put any extension. But we did use .html, yeah, I think. Which was a bit confusing, perhaps. But then, yeah, and you had to, it wasn't, I think this felt too, we didn't have the dollar prefix as well. You had to, I think you had to have a computed property that you exported. And then each function was the kind of like, well, this was the thing that depends on something else. The documentation is actually still up. If you go to v2.svelte.w, you get to the old v2 documentation. I've just randomly occasionally just gone in there. Just to check. Yeah, just to check. Yeah, because it feels weird. I think, because I remember, in a way, I was like, this dollar thing seems a bit crazy as well when it first came out. I was like, oh no, this is broadly good. I mean, I think it can be, well, I did that talk. at um that's something as well where i was sort of saying how that um it's one of the things i see a bit with people uh because we have a sort of a variety of sort of levels of skill and it sort of on the on the team but it one of the things i see sometimes where people just kind of dollar prefix almost everything Yes I seen that as well Yeah and not necessarily which isn I'm not saying it's actually necessarily bad, but you're kind of like, if you're kind of thinking, is it possible for this value to sort of change without it causing all of the things below it to change as well? Or is it, you know, and it's like, can that value sort of, is it possible really for it to be cached and reused? And even if it is, is it sort of valuable as well? Because it's kind of like, if it's doing some kind of long thing and then it comes out with a string, that's great. Maybe you're going to hold on to that, but it's usually not like that. And so I feel like trying to put the logic into a whole kind of block which sort of encapsulates everything that's supposed to be going on at that point. So particularly around things like sizing and stuff like that, where you're kind of, so in a graphic, very often you'll be kind of, we use D3 a lot as well, a JavaScript visualization library. And so a very common pattern is you've got some data, you loop over them to find the maximum and minimum value to set the domain of the scale, and then you're doing some other things with the scale based on the size of the window and all of that kind of thing. So all of that is usually a nice sort of concise block that should go in a reactive block. Yeah, I find that when I've seen people use reactive blocks, I try to avoid them, actually, but then my use case is not a lot of interactive stuff. I just use SvelteKit and then I use form actions and the load function and that's pretty much it. Some tiny amounts of interactive stuff I do, but rarely stuff where things are moving around the screen or I have to recalculate things and stuff. I usually just let SvelteKit handle the invalidation of the data and updating it and stuff. But I've seen examples of people overusing reactive statements. I find it gets very hairy very quickly if you have many blocks and many statements. Because you kind of don't understand how they trigger each other. And also, a reactive statement, if you put it in the script tag, even if you put it above some other declaration, it always gets instantiated last, I think, if I remember correctly. So you have to also think about the order in the script tag that you put things. That's usually not a problem, but it's something I'm not aware of. No, I think that is, actually, I guess it's true, yeah, that people, it is also confusing as to, with a reactive block on mount and then just sort of stuff

 that is directly in the script tag, which exactly is going to happen first. And I'm not even certain I could say for sure without my life depending on it. But I think with that as well, what we tend to do is that sort of common pattern, particularly where things are arrays, you just have an empty array and you're like, let me just, you know, so it's initially instantiated with that. And then, you know, data is loaded and then you've sort of set it and then it sort of triggers it again, but it's only one render. And that seems to be sort of a pragmatic solution. Yeah. So you were talking about Svelte 5 and you were talking a bit about simplicity of Svelte before? Yeah. I mean, I think, well, I was going to say another thing as well is we were also early to using SAPPA as well. Right. So we used that to make a number. I think we did at least one or two elections and we also did the B schools, business schools, the best business schools guide. So Sapper, for those that don't know about it, the people that are new to Svelte, Sapper's the predecessor to SvelteKit. Yeah. And it was good. It was a lot better, I think, than anything we could have done previously or would have been... It made things much simpler. But relatively, Kit made things so much easier. There were a lot of problems around sort of page navigation and sort of exactly where events would occur and sort of trying to squeeze in. It's sort of like even when you've got the page itself roughly doing what you wanted, there was complexities with things like tracking and analytics and things like that where it sort of has to sort of know whether it happens at the beginning of the page or the end and whether it still has the previous page's URL in it and that kind of thing. So anyway, almost I think all of those problems in Kit just disappeared and was so much nicer as well. So, yeah, Kit has been a huge improvement. And, yeah, so I'm excited about Svelte 5. In fact, it was interesting because I did a short lightning talk in London, the Svelte meetup, quite some time ago now, maybe two years ago. Svelte Kit's been out for a long time. Yeah, and this was around, I guess it would, that wasn't the title of the talk, but it was essentially around kind of fine-grained reactivity, which is now the hot buzzword with Svelte 5 Because there the immutable tag in Svelte 4 and probably 3 as well I think where you can sort of say if these objects are not mutated then it will just do simple kind of like checks, which can eliminate sort of renders that don't need to happen, because at the moment Svelte by default is pessimistic, so it sort of assumes that you might have mutated the object. And so there's a kind of little demo bit of that in Buried, buried well not exactly buried but it's towards the sort of advanced sort of endy bits of the documentation in tutorials but it always sort of like sort of stuck in my mind of kind of like well that'd be interesting if we could try and sort of eliminate unnecessary renders although i have to say as well with that um well we'll probably talk about this more in a bit but i use spelt quite on my side projects and it's amazing actually how fast things are and i think you know it can also be that like am i you know over optimizing and worrying about eliminating renders and it's actually fine you know you can still just do thousands and thousands of things and still get 60 frames per second and it's no problem um so i don't know but it feels i think that there's also to some extent um if you if things are definitely only rendering when they change it's also interesting because you can then sometimes have sort of effects which sort of play on change and that itself can be a kind of a useful kind of visual sort of ux kind of uh edition so i'm i'm excited to see where that goes in swap five but it does mean that yeah so basically i said to rich about the talk and he was like oh don't bother about it because in swap five it completely eliminates it and i was like okay um but yes i've only i've only played around with swap five a bit in um my spare time um because we're currently working on the u.s election for 2024 right and it's it's uh this year is definitely not a time to go playing around with completely new technologies. It's a much bigger team and it's more ambitious as a graphic. I mean, it's been release candidate for how long now? Yeah, quite a long time. Yeah, a very long time. I think as well, it's just conceptually, because there has been a few people who talked about it, where the dollar had this kind of nice simplicity to it. And I think kind of state, derived seems okay. I think, because I feel already, I've read a lot and watched quite a lot of videos where people are like, be careful with effect. Yeah. And it like you kind of and I can see why it problematic but I know at the same time I just going to I definitely going to stumble into those problems myself Right yeah same same Yeah I was actually interested as well There was a video I forgotten the name of the guy It's the guy who says Easy Peasy Lemon Squeezy. Ah, Mattia. Yeah, Mattia. Joy of Code, I think. And that was a really helpful video, but he was talking, I think it was about this animation sort of library he had. Ah, Animotion? Yeah, that's it. Yeah. And the fact that he was still actually using stores with Svelte 5. I didn't actually realize that they were so compatible like that. Yeah, they're going to stay. Right, that's good, because I do love my readable stores. One of their favorite things. Yeah, because one of the new features of Svelte 5 is the fact that you can extract those reactive statements, as it were, to separate files, right? So you can reuse the logic. You couldn't do that before because reactive statements could only be read by the compiler in the Svelte files. That's an interesting change. So you could kind of move away from stores into something like that. I know some people are worried about interactivity outside of Svelte. Because if you use the Rune style, so you have to basically create a file that's named something.svelte.javascript or .ts, right? And that's where you put your logic. And you can use runes in there and everything is fine, etc. But nothing outside of Svelte understands those things, right? I think. So in that sense, stores are still maybe an easier way to interact with non-Svelte stuff. yeah i'm not sure i i haven't gone down that route um well i have found that sometimes with projects where because i think once you start to sort of think reactively like that you kind of often want that with with things and so there was like um this project uh well i should maybe say about prefixing it um in 2019 i did this uh i did a master's degree at goldsmiths in computational arts which was really fun and exciting and um i did learn a bunch of things but it's still with that. It's like when you've got a tool that just, it becomes your kind of like favorite tool. And so I use Svelte for quite a lot of the projects with that. And I still, I use Svelte in sort of artistic kind of creative ways And so yeah there was something like that where I was controlling a whole load of servos and it was basically just have an array of like the positions you want to go to right i was like well actually it because you would sort of send this over the wire and again i'm it's one of those things where it's like you don't you don't necessarily have that much time to investigate as to how these things work but you know it's a very low um bandwidth it's like 900 9600 bits per second okay wow and so you're kind of like well i don't want to go send in unnecessary kind of move to this position if it's still the existing position exactly and so i was like well i'll just ship it through so i mean i could as well i was like i could just write my own kind of like array different kind of thing or you know maybe this is right there's probably tools for that but i was like well i don't really have to think about it like this i'll be like why not just you know it's available on a web page um but it is a bit strange sometimes where you kind of have things well i don't know i kind of go back and forth because it's having something that's completely kind of there's sort of like headless but then there's also kind of like not even having any sort of interface to it at all so this is strange in that it's kind of like actually the the user interface is doing the calculation so it's like nothing happens unless this web page exists right yeah and so a browser has to be kind of like looking at it so so to speak but you're kind of like well it's not necessarily a bad thing because it's kind of like just like a kind of interface panel that sort of tells me what is the position of these servos yeah um and And so, yeah, but it is a bit strange because you kind of, you have to have something that can run a browser somewhere. So, yeah, I suppose in a more purist way, it would make sense if that wasn't happening. Right, yeah. If it would just be happening purely server-side. Yeah. All right, so you still like your stores. Yeah, store stores. You want to keep them? Yeah. All right, so how do you use stores like at Bloomberg? Like generally, do you use it to like interact with something like 3.js, or is that done without stores? We don't use 3.js tons, or at least I haven't particularly. I mean, essentially, I should sort of say in terms of in the graphics team, pretty much every, because I sort of look after the back end of how we publish graphics. Right. And essentially the API of the graphic or the publishing system is just that we have a public folder and we just deploy that. Right. And so there's an awful lot of intelligence that has to go into the build step to make the graphic. And then otherwise, after that, it's all on the front end. And so, wait, what was I talking about? Stories. Oh, stores, that's it, yes. So, again, 3.js.

 So with that, it's very open for people to try things out. So if you're doing something with 3.js, it might be that Svelte is not necessarily useful as a tool for handling this. Or you might use Threault, which is still built on Svelte, but it's kind of offing to its own thing a bit. Yeah, so I don't know. The classic things, stores are great for interaction where you're selecting some kind of data point. and it's often even if you're not um i quite often would sort of advise people to be like it's a good way to to use a store even if um because there's a lot of editing that goes into a graphic as well so you quite often will be like it starts off as one chart and then we split it out into three charts and then it goes to two and then it goes back to one again or something like that and so it's kind of having that sort of flexibility um is is quite important because you what you don't want is where you're sort of you know the editor says oh actually i don't think we need this and and you're like, oh, damn, why did I put all this work into it? Or if you take that chart out, then it breaks the interactivity of other things or something like that. And so having that kind of thing where you're just binding to a store, which is like, I'm selecting this value on the X variables or something like that, and then you can just be like, across all of the graphics, you then just take that value and be like, now this is the selected one. It's very useful. Do you know if it's common to write custom stores? or is that something not that common just generally use like the built-in writable and readable yeah it tends to be because I kind of find the custom stores to be a way of like encapsulating some form of functionality yeah that I like it could be anything but I'm not it seems a good idea I mean I think it's building something that is sort of so strong like that does strongly encapsulate is sometimes tricky, or to what extent? Because I think very often as well, it's quite a small number of people that are actually working on a graphic, and so a lot of that knowledge is in your head about the structure. I assume as well, if you're in the graphics department, you don't have unlimited time getting things out. You have some deadlines, and then once it's done, you don't really touch it again. Maybe you go back and look at how you did something. sometimes things do get updated we made a push this year which is working quite well to extract out reusable components But with that as well the sort of direction we taken is rather than trying to build the perfect component where you just use it and it does everything, it's actually to try and build a good sort of component, but we set it up so that you actually just copy it into your project. because sometimes you can do a component that is just like it does everything that it needs. But with things like a table, a table is so fiendishly complex. There's no perfect table component. And the more you try, all that happens is you just get a bigger and more complex table component. It just gets more abstracted and complicated. Because there's always something you can do to a table that will just make it incompatible with other things you've done. and so with that it's more like here's a bunch of kind of like this is a way of doing a table like this and this is a way of doing it like that and particularly once you want to start putting other components inside the table and then you're kind of like based on this, this thing shows or doesn't and all of that. I hadn't even thought about that as a use case for like showing things on it. And also just because it's, I mean well you find this all the time in HTML just because it's sort of table shaped doesn't mean that actually a table is the right underlying elements to use as well. Although the table element is kind of underused in HTML, I would say. Oh, I don't know, maybe, yeah. Maybe not. I'm so old school. For years there was all that thing of like, stop using tables for layout. Right. Maybe that's why I feel like tables are underused, because people are like, oh, I've been taught I should never use tables. Oh, that's true. So they're just like, ooh. Yeah, people were like. They're quite nice. Yeah. No, I do like tables. I mean, I think it's to do with the way the layout. I mean, I don't know what the algorithm is inside, but you realize it's really weird and complex to do this sort of like get the biggest thing that won't compress. Right. So there's all these kind of complex cascading kind of effects on like the sizing for it. But I mean, it's also one of those things where if you, I mean, well, if you're making big tables, you know, hundreds of rows, then it does get kind of weird and complex. But if you're using it, very often, the way we tend to use tables, you just lay, this column's always this width, and things like that. So the render and layout performance is perfectly fine anyway But yeah I was going to say the other thing we use readables for i mean particularly for the election is for sort of polling and for fetching data as well and that also one of those things i like a lot that they that they sort of lazily evaluated and it's funny how often i forget that as well it's like so many times i'm doing i'm like why isn't this thing even working and i'm like oh because i'm not subscribed to it right Yeah, yeah. So I often build quite a lot of little test pages for myself as well, which is now, again, so much easier with SvelteKit, where you can just be like, just check that this component is doing its thing and it will be subscribing to that store in the way I expect. Yeah, I think the dollar sign prefix thing for stores, it kind of tricks you in a way that you're not using a store. I don't know, it's kind of hard to reason about sometimes strange with when you have multiple sort of derived that you don't know which order they're going to occur in and I presume, I don't know if there is even if it's just a sort of a luck kind of race condition thing or whether it's just a sort of like how, you know, at run time or whether it's how the code is compiled I haven't looked into this but basically it's not reliable so you need to think through you can't have I suppose that's effectively you're having a kind of weird sort of side effect in some sort of way happening there so I've learned that the hard way you need to sort of think through this thing but often it just means inserting another sort of derived store but it can get a bit of a mad thing it's kind of similar to the reactive statements right that it's like you don't know which one's triggering in what order but it's a bit clearer probably I forgot his name again you mentioned earlier the video guy Mattia I think he also had that thing where he was demonstrating where he built a nice sort of diagram tree that was showing some of the interactivity I would love if we could do that with Svelte generally if it could have a kind of show the entire tree of interactivity I've always felt like the kind of developer tools are a bit lacking in Svelte. Oh, really? In the sense that extensions for the browser, I know there is one there used to be one but I don think it updated anymore Having something like that in there would be nice to see the oh okay so this is happening This thing is updating this thing. Or maybe if you could see something updated here and then you could go back through the history and see in which order it was triggered and why it was triggered and stuff like that. What was that amazing tool that was demoed at Svelte Summit? Oh, the Svelte Inspector. Yeah, that's it. That one's really good, though. But that's another kind of thing. I always forget how to enable it. So I never enable it. It's very frustrating because I know there's documentation somewhere. Like, oh, you just put this in the config. But then I always wonder, like, which config? There's the Svelte config and then there's the Vite config. and I never remember where. I wish it was already enabled by default. Yeah, I'm going to do that next week then, is enable it and remember. Because ages and ages ago, I remember I had actually a chat with Rich. I mean, it's amazing as well how many things you can kind of say, can you make this happen? And it somehow does. Because I was saying that there aren't source maps for HTML. So it's weird that you can kind of, in the inspector, you can say, where does this bit of CSS come from? It tells you where does this bit of JavaScript come from. But when the HTML is there, you're like, where did this come from? It's like, sorry, no idea. But that tool effectively kind of does that for you. Yeah, because you can click something and you just end up, well, you don't click in the source, right? You just click the element on the page, right? But it's actually, it's a very cool feature. I bet it could do it from the source as well, actually. Maybe you can. I'm sure it could do it from the DOM too. I mean, it makes sense, right? if you just do it somehow. But yeah, for those that don't know what we're talking about, we're talking about something called the Svelte Inspector, which is basically a tool that lets you click. So you basically enable the tool by adding some config, and then you hold down a key, and then you click anywhere on the page, and then that opens up your editor at the correct line and the correct file and everything. So it saves a bunch of time. I remember me and Dominic, the guy that made The Inspector, we were talking about how you could, what if you could

 If you added an editor inside of the browser, so you could just click it, and then it would pop up like a panel, and you could just edit something, and then save it, and then it would just update. You wouldn't even have to switch context to the editor. I don't know how it would work, and it would obviously be a very limited version of a real editor. That could be very handy, though. But if you just wanted to change a value in the fade transition to make it look faster or slower. I don't know, whatever. That could be nice. Or what if you could shift-click the element and then you would get a list of attributes that you could change on the component. You could do so many things with something like this. Yeah, that would be good. It's one of those weird things, because I find I'm definitely guilty of this, where I get so stuck in my ways with the editor and the general setup I have. And I can see things where I'm like, oh, this looks better, but I don't have time to retrain my brain right now. Actually, I find often December is quite a good month. It tends to be a relatively quiet month. Like a lull in, especially the news cycle, maybe? Yeah, news cycles. It tends to die off because everyone stops creating events, news, usually, hopefully. That's sort of like natural disasters and things like that hopefully don't happen. Yeah, so that can be a good time to kind of re-evaluate your own sort of tools and processes. Yeah, I've been trying to use a new editor lately. It's called Zed. Okay. Which is like an actual native application, so it's not like a web view or something like VS Code. I feel like it's nice to, when you click a file, it actually just pops up with the correct stuff instantly instead of having to wait for a bit. I mean, it doesn't take that long usually in VS Code. It's usually very fast, at least on my computer. But you can still notice sometimes the syntax highlighting lags a bit and then it shows up. I think there was an interesting thread a while ago on Hacker News about this. And I was like, why? It very hard to it be interesting to kind of you can go back into the past and you like how much of this is just kind of what the word for it like nostalgia or things like that But they were sort of saying about old kind of text interfaces and how fast they were. And, you know, you were kind of like when you were back in sort of DOS and things like that, and you would just be like, and they were like, oh, everything just happened at like 200 milliseconds or less. It just felt instant. I'm like, I don't know if it did though, because I know at some point there was a thing where, I can't remember what it was, but at some point I turned on this was many, many years ago, but even still I switched on this old 486 or something like that. And I could not believe how slow and noisy it was. It sounded like a little machine gun was going on inside it with the noise of the hard drive. Yeah. So I don't know. Roast into the glasses, maybe. I definitely remember that I could, back in the early days at school, that you could overtake the speed of the computer, but you kind of knew what the commands were. In fact, you would type it in, and it would just be filling up the keyboard. And then all your commands would suddenly execute after that. So I don't know, it probably was that, that it wasn't. I think it goes back and forth. It's kind of like processes have got much faster, but we're continually slowing down the interface. and yeah I don't know it's a tricky thing I mean actually I know that Chrome has recently changed their sort of performance tab and tried it out the other day I use Safari all day every day even for development which is kind of unusual I was forced to use it for a while at work because for some problem with Chrome I couldn't understand in the end I just re-imaged my Mac because I was like I just have to be back on Chrome it's weird though actually because in my personal life I use Firefox so I'm kind of like between both of them but yeah sort of it's it's uh i mean actually that's one of the things that i sort of um not exactly miss but it's kind of with graphics because like you were sort of saying the way that they because it's news so you work on them and so it's one of the joys is that because we're continually creating new graphics it's a great opportunity to try out new things because you're like let me try it see if it works and if it doesn't well you kind of either throw it away and kind of make it work some other way or you but quite often you'll be like this was fine but i didn't really enjoy it or it wasn't that amazing so i won't use it again um but with that as well it sort of it means that there not um in the way that if you just sort of working on the same app for years and years and years you can spend a lot of time thinking about performance and probably looking in Chrome Although I say that I say you could it doesn't feel like people are doing that that much. There's so many really terrible websites out there that are really slow. Unbelievably slow sometimes, right? Even just simple websites sometimes are really, really slow. Sometimes it boggles my mind a bit. especially when businesses have very slow websites. I found as well, actually, it's interesting because I work quite a lot with the data structures that we use, particularly for elections, because it's something where we're going to be fetching that data an awful lot of times and there's going to be a lot of people doing it. And so I find that it's hard to beat CSVs or TSV because you just kind of normalize it down to the sort of smallest thing. Right, right. It's just like number, comma, number, comma, number. That's it. Style, right? I mean, I've gotten, because I like to optimize, I've done a bit of extra sort of tweaking where I kind of like tweak how dates work and if it's true or false, just remove the forces and you only put one as a true value. But all of that, it does add up this sort of, this bike shaving. And election data is probably quite a lot of data. It's not that much. Well, it's not loads. I mean, for the US, I think there's, off the top of my head, maybe 3,500 counties or something like that. So that's at that very fine level. Otherwise, if you're just doing it for the states. So we probably wouldn't, I don't think we're doing that for the, as sort of a default view, that's more like a detailed view. But, and we also do it where we sort of break it down by state as well and things like that. but yeah I mean it's one of those things where you can spend a lot of time trying to get a file down from like 60k to 50k and then you look at these sites and they've got like a 12 megabyte video or something like that and you're like why am I even doing this and also it's hard but the thing I suppose is to remember that code and data kind of have very different performance effects from like a video is just going to be fetched somewhere in the background 12 megabytes of JavaScript though that's going to slow you down yeah so um no it is it is kind of um strange like that but yeah it feels like it would be um it would be quite fun in a way to work on a really big app that was just an ongoing adventure We do have that bit Actually, our internal tools use Svelte as well. Is that something you work on as well? Some of them, yeah. It's our publishing, the internal publishing system that we use just for graphics. Oh, cool. But it's one of those things where there's a whole load of urgent things, and so it's always that kind of like, which is the most urgent? And so that hasn't been... That's the same. I think that's the same in pretty much all business stuff. It's always like a trade-off of how well can we do it and how fast can we do it. Business usually leans towards do it fast, which in the long run can probably slow you down a bit. I think also with internal tools, you're kind of like, at what point, you know, the goal is never the internal tools. The tool is to sort of enable something else to happen. I find it nice to have the view that there are users, like you have users for your internal tools, right? So they have to work even if they, obviously like, maybe I'm contradicting myself now, but like they don't have to look as good as the stuff that you put out in the public, right? Because it's just a tool that someone is using. But then there's a nice feeling of using a tool that kind of sparks some joy. So it kind of, I don't remember who it was, but I think what Josh Nussbaum, he did a talk at Svelte Summit. He said on Twitter, was it something, I think I mentioned it before, but how code affects your... The quality of the code base affects work-life balance. Because if the code is bad, you go home and you're tired because you've been thinking extra hard about how to do something that should have been easy. So I don't know where I was going with this. I was going to make some point, but yeah. Let's move on. It's just like a quote that I like, because it's a thing that I've never thought about in that way, but it's very true. Like, if you're working in a...

 If you're working in a tool that is hard to use, then you're going to be frustrated and you're not going to be happy working. So even if it is an internal tool, it is important. At the same time, it's funny because design-wise, because we know it's internal, it's more like a thing to have fun. Because there's a lot of design-y, creative people on the team as well, So often it can be like, let's just ask them to submit some fun icons or things like that. But yeah, I think it's a mix. But as you said, there's always a trade-off as to where you're spending the time and energy. Oh, should we make it look cool or should we add this feature that simplifies life for everyone? Probably the latter, right? Do you want to talk about site projects? Yeah, so I was going to say, as I've mentioned already about that, I did that degree at Goldsmiths. And so it was weird because it started in 2019. And so I was graduating during COVID. And it was a strange time because we weren't sure if we were going to have a final show at all. Oh, and it's very visual, I suppose. Yeah, so typically you have a big end of degree show. And I think back then there was about 80 people doing the course and i think it's now grown to over 100 so it's quite a big show um and you're given a sort of you know a bit of wall space or sort of floor space and and you people build all kinds of amazing sort of interesting sort of artistic kind of coding things and so yes it was unclear as to what exactly was going to go on and i was like well and also with that we didn't have um as much ability to go into the university and use the right sort of lab they have with there it has a lot of sort of tools like that sort of laser cutters and printers and things like that so um so i yeah so anyways it was interesting early in lockdown everyone was saying how they had these sort of strange dreams and i was sort of thinking about that and i i have sort of quite strange and interesting dreams as well and so we were kind of like in this little crit group and we were sort of talking through ideas and so that was the sort of idea i pursued where i was sort of looking at how um sort of the kind of ideas and sort of connectedness within dreams And are we cause you often want like or I wonder is like are we having the same dreams Are we always like you know because there always that sort of idea about where does sort of like consciousness kind of come from and where are where are we like that because it sort of like um i mean i know this all gets into all sorts of weird philosophical bits about you know like the simulation hypothesis or things like this but you know we're having all these sort of like thoughts and and and dreams and we're like where where are they coming from and why why and what are the sort of relationships. Even just like what's the point of a dream? Yeah, it's all kind of strange like this. And what was quite fun with this is you can take quite a lot of the sort of skills that you have from journalism and applying them in an artistic context is really quite fun because you don't have to have the same integrity. It's like in journalism, you're always like, where does this data come from? Is it a sort of reasonable source and all of this? And in the art world, you're kind of given much more sort of liberal sort of license to sort of, you know, play around with things. So I scraped a whole bunch of dream diary entries. There's a couple of sort of sites which sort of have these. And it came to about 100,000 dreams, I think, in total. Oh, wow. And I used Word2Vec, which was that sort of, it was issued by, I've forgotten the name of the people, but they worked at Google. And it was one of the early kind of sort of language models. And it's still, honestly, it's kind of, it's witchcraft a bit to me, how this even really works. in that you can basically just feed in lots of text and it just sort of somehow, there's sort of multiple levels of magic, but somehow a sort of tokenizer is able to work out what makes good tokens. So you're not explicitly saying just space. It is able to sort of do more cleverer stuff than this. And then from that, it will work out kind of relationships between words. And then you just get back these vectors of the words, of the terms. and it absolutely does work where you'll see this in these sort of explanations of how to sort of word vectorization work where you can sort of you know you you sort of they would say like take um like the word queen and add male and you'll be the nearest node in the high dimensional space will be king oh right well and you know they were sort of saying you could do things like take the word iraq and subtract viner violence and you get jordan oh right and so um so it was really interesting with that. It's nice because 100,000 entries sounds like a lot of text as a human, but to these machine models it nothing really These days as well how much data are open AI or meta training they large models on And so I think I got it to output, I think, at 100 or 128 dimensions or something like that for all of the terms. So you get sort of a weight for each term. And then, I'm trying to remember what I did. So you took the diary texts and fed them into the... and then you got tokens out. Yeah, and so I think I was using 100 dimensions at the kind of where it's working out the relationships between them. And then there's an amazing algorithm called TISN-E, T-S-N-E. What? TISN-E. TISN-E? Yeah, so it's T, lowercase, dash S-N-E. I can't remember what it stands for now. And it's a way of reducing dimensionality. Okay. So you can take these 100 dimensions and, say, reduce this to three dimensions. And so it's kind of, it's sort of like you, it's like you're taking a sort of cosine difference between all of the values across these high dimensions and sort of reducing it, reducing it, reducing it down. Sounds very complicated. It does, yeah. I mean, it's, again, very mathsy and clever. And Google have a interactive form, which is really quite satisfying to watch because you have sort of all these things in just a completely sort of jumbled space, and then it sort of squeezes them. It looks a little bit like, have you seen when starlings or birds do those flocks where they, there's a word for this, what's it called? Oh, the word has escaped me. Anyway, there's a special word where they sort of all fly around in formations. Yeah, yeah, I know what you mean, yeah. And so it looks a little bit like that and then it kind of like, it sort of flattens it out and it's like, and then it's resolved and then the sort of, you know, the amount of change is disappearing. So I used that to basically put them into this three-dimensional space and then used a lot of the D3 tools for sort of geographic projection. So I then projected it to this stereographic projection, which is sort of how you would look at the nighttime stars. So it's a projection where basically you assume you're in the center point of the Earth and you're kind of looking out for a sort of sphere, which is effectively infinitely far away. So I'm looking at it right now and it looks very cool. I thought it, like when I first came into the room, I thought it was just an image of the star signs and stuff when I initially looked at it That good that the intention really Yeah great success I try to take a photo and put it in the description Yeah I send you a blog post as well on it Oh nice And yeah, so I used Svelte for that because, again, it was just, I mean, I think so it's being able to make components just is such a huge sort of game changer because it's just so relative to how, because I mean, it's like I've been writing HTML and JavaScript long enough that we sort of the backbone was a big sort of breakthrough right because it was kind of like that was sort of more like a sort of structure as to how kind of things could depend on other things how you could reuse things yeah but i mean and then we but we were still using uh d3 which i mean d3 is excellent um but the i feel like the the select kind of update pattern is is conceptually quite complex it's very powerful and it's particularly powerful when you have um very uh sort of particular or complex kind of animations because you can sort of just select the piece you need and kind of transform it in a way it's sort of it's both um but it is with that it's difficult to understand i think also it's sort of and that again is sort of partly again with going back to the very early days of Svelte, we had used D3 before for elections, and it was working great, but we would get memory leaks because it was just harder to know what you were doing. And normally on a graphic, it doesn't matter too much because you kind of like load the data, do a big load of rendering, and it's done. Maybe you have some little interactions, and perhaps they're leaking a tiny bit of memory, but it doesn't matter that much. whereas with the election it's like every 30 seconds or so you've got new data coming in and if that's causing the whole DOM to re-render but at the same time you're like accidentally sort of leaking memory on every single node you're going to have a bad time and it was things like that so you would find it wasn't terrible but you could find that maybe after half an hour or something like that you would half an hour isn't even particularly long to have something like that open especially if you're watching the election live and you're waiting for the results. So I think we... I don't know. I don't think we had it as bad as that in the end, but it was evident that we were having to spend more time thinking about how our D3 use was, what we were doing and why we were leaking memory. And in Svelte, you just don't really think about it. You're just like, as long as you...

 You do your mounts and unmounts correctly. It's great like that. Yeah, unmount and unmount going away. Yeah. I feel about that. Oh, are they? Aren't they? I think you're right, they are. I think. I think. Let's double check before we spread chaos in the podcasting world. Unmount. Unmount? what's it called? Is it called Unmount? No, it's Destroy. Destroy, right. I'm not finding anything here. Maybe it's not going to. I think they're going to stay around. I don't know. We'll see. Maybe it might be in the long run. That's a slightly strange thing where on clicks, on colon click has become on click. well I mean it is strange but not really once you realize that oh it's the HTML way of doing it but yeah so that's it I used felt in a bunch of side project creative things I think as well maybe I'm a bit of a person who just sort of likes having a structure kind of already there for me because I mean ages ago I used to use Ruby on Rails and again I felt it was useful to have a kind of common structure and then you're like, how are you deviating from this and why? Rather than you get projects where every person has just done their own little cool thing and you're trying to work out. That's very cool, but you don't understand anything, right? Or it takes like six months before you understand anything. But yeah, that's why SvelteKit is so nice, for me at least. Every time I need a new page or anything, I just initiate a new cell kit project and I'm ready to go, right? I keep meaning to make my own personal website. There's so many side projects which I never get finished. I've been saying to a bunch of people, I really need to just organize this myself in a low-key way, about where we just have hackathons where you're not allowed to start anything. You just bring a project that you've been working on and you finish it. That's a fun idea, actually. I thought about like so back home I thought about like because I want to get a couple of people together and just in the space where we work on stuff but we don't necessarily work on the same thing. It's just like a hackathon style thing, but we just sit there and work. I guess that could be like a co-working space, but then... Well, ages ago, when I lived in New York, um this friend michael keller uh we have this group and it still kind of runs sort of you know sort of sporadic way uh which we named csv sound system um and it was just us meeting how does a csv well i don't know that was one of the funny things actually is we had this name and we were for ages we're kind of like as if at some point we would actually start making music and there has been a bit of that they did make somebody made a thing where they kind of audioized the sort of u.s treasury report or something like that um there's definitely there are projects out there because people have sort of said about this there's there's quite a lot of projects where you can use excel and various other things as if you're making like a sort of a beat tracking kind of thing um but i mean yeah that was that was named it but it was quite nice in that we would just meet weekly um and it would just be kind of work on your side project because i think there can be that kind of thing where just in a space with other people you can be sort of productive you know and you you like you go there and you know that this is sort of a social thing, but it's meant to be like a work. Yeah. Like maybe you have food or whatever. And because I suppose also you both get, it's interesting where you get direction. People are kind of like, wow, that's really cool. People are like, I don't, you know, it's clear they don't quite understand it. Why are you doing this? Yeah. And things like that. I used to go to, I think I'm not, I don't think I remember anymore, but the London Hack Space as well. One of the things I remember the most is I was there and this guy came in and he had this great big long rope of LEDs. And you're like, oh, what are you doing? He's like, oh, I'm making this one-pixel game. I'm like, oh, okay, yeah. One-pixel game? Yeah. And I'm like, okay, yeah, that sounds kind of interesting. He's a bit mad. And then the next time I see it, I'm at the V&A. The V&A? Sorry, the Victoria and Albert Museum in London. Okay, yeah. They had this exhibit on games, and his game was there. I think his name's Robert Balgama, is it? If you look for, like, one pixel. And it really cool It like when you play it it actually I seen a as well he he talked about it because he actually it got this sort of big spring that is kind of the controller so you're basically just you control one pixel on an led rope okay and you're just sort of moving along and kind of like snake yeah and so there's there's kind of you're sort of having to go over like a sort of a fire pit or things like that there's a lot left to the imagination as to what these sort of obstacles might be. But it's one of those things where it's just like the sort of joy of the sort of interaction. It's really cool. But yeah, it's that kind of serendipity and where you're sort of, and it's nice, you know, that sort of thing where you're sort of, I'm like, this seems mad, and then you see it when it's finally done and you're like, wow, this is really cool. And he probably worked on that at like that hackerspace probably for quite a bit, right? Yeah, ages. Yeah. He's also built this amazingly beautiful thing with um led rings a bit similar to that where there's a kind of again loads of these springs um it's weird how i think because he just wanted a spring as a sort of a bit like a joystick and went down this enormous kind of rabbit hole of like spring stuff a lot of his talk was about that because apparently there's some company in west london where you can just make where they'll make custom springs for you which is what he ended up doing because he was like none of the springs i could find were quite right um and because i think is it hook's law or something like this. I don't know if you studied this in physics, but there's a whole kind of early physics of springs, and there's a whole kind of interesting thing about it. I'm sure it's way more complicated than at first glance. Like everything in the world. Yes, that's it. But yeah, just really beautiful interactions with LEDs and making just these lovely smooth kind of color transitions and things like that. Yeah, like having having a space to go to to work on on side projects and stuff i think that that's a it's a it's a productivity boost it would be for me yeah at least uh it's a tricky thing because i know the the london hack space has been there's been sort of i think kind of you know political issues and things like that with it and all of that but there's also political well you know sort of like it's one of those things where like as it grows you know you kind of like you can be a victim of your own success i see which so many people where they're kind of like oh it should be going in this direction or that direction or you know like and you know you know when it's all like when everything works where it's a nice community and everyone sort of like puts in at least the minimum like more than the minimum effort that is required um you know things work well and then when people are sort of like And so it also been difficult because I think this is one of the big problems of where London has just got so expensive Right. And so it's had to move around a bunch. And so areas where it's like you can't be that central. It keeps moving further and further away from the centre. Yeah, and so it's like it's sort of... The further it is, it's sort of like if it's in... I think it's northwest London now. Yeah. And so it's harder. It's very tricky if you're in sort of southeast or something. But, I mean, I think there are smaller ones that have sprung up. So perhaps that's the way in a way that the success is that the smaller other ones appear. Yeah, I think, I don't know if you'd want it to be that big. Maybe 10 people is enough. Well, that was the thing, I joined really early on, and I can't remember what they topped out at, but it was really scary the way they were something up to something like 20,000 members. Yeah, wow. And you're like, wow. how do you organize but there's other fruits as well there's also I don't know if it's directly related but there's also EMF camp in the UK which is electromagnetic field and that's a really fun festival which is organized by Jonty who was one of the Hackspace founders and yes that's like nerds camping in a field wait I think you were talking last time we met, I think you talked a lot about this. So yeah, that's really fun. This is the badge actually from that. Every year they've been sort of giving, I don't know where this began, I think it might have been some other sort of hacker-related conferences, I think it might have been Black Hat or something like this, where they started giving out chipsets as badges. I'll take a photo of this as well. So I don't know if it's got any power at the moment. um the yeah so there's a lot of really interesting uh sort of fun things like that i think actually as well just going back to svelte and there's lots of stuff with svelte where i feel like i would like to contribute more and i know so it's like i it's it also looks like it is it's now quite complex and it's always been like this i mean i think as richard sort of said that there's one of the problems is it's like you're having to think about code that generates code which is just inherently quite complex. But I think as well, the docs are always really fantastic and I feel like there's things like that. Because I know as well, one of the things that I really liked early on was that we were using,

 because we were using Svelte just, well, yeah, because we were just Svelte for the front end. And so now we tend to use SvelteKit, and everything is very harmonious. But I think there's still a lot of people that are using PHP and various other sort of like static, sort of the front end generation bits of it, the sort of the static HTML. And yeah, so sort of I think keeping them as part of that community is an important part. Yeah, there's been some work on, not by the Svelte team, but by others, where they've tried to integrate other backends. Right. So I think one was, like the hackathon last year, I think there was a Django thing. I don't remember if it was, I think it was called DX Svelte. Right? And it basically lets you use Svelte in your Django project somehow. I think that would be really good, because I think a lot of people, it's quite easy to... Well, it's strange. I mean, I go back and forth about the take-up, because Svelte is now definitely at a point where it's got enough popularity and momentum, but it's not going anywhere. Right, yeah. And it's like, there's, it's weird that it still seems, always, always, that the primary thing people seem to argue about is whether they like templates or not. And they're like, oh, I don't like handlebar type templates. Yeah, but I mean, that's, do you think it would, like, how would you get away from using a template? Yeah, I don't know if it would make that much difference. Also, to some extent, I'm like, like SolidJS, if you don't like, if you want to do it, Solid.js has lots of great features, and Svelte has benefited from a lot of the thinking that has gone on there too. So it's not like we don't want just one framework to be the winner. And that's kind of one of the downsides, I would say, of Svelte 5, is that it moves closer to the other frameworks. Yeah. I mean, obviously it's not the same, but you're introducing effect, which sounds a lot like the use effect thing in React. Sure, it's not the same thing, but maybe you stopped using React because you wanted to move away from that To me it feels a bit like even though I very excited about Svelte 5 it feels like it losing a bit of its simplicity I think we touched a bit on that earlier But yeah, I worry about that rather than people arguing about handlebar stuff, templates, like that's more of a worry to me that people that have never once coded anything in their life picking Svelte up and feeling rather than, oh, this is just HTML and I don't have to worry about all this other stuff. Suddenly feeling what is an effect? What is a drive? What is this? So that's one of my worries that we're going to lose that bit. There was at Svelte Summit as well, like a couple of years ago, there was a talk about, I think, a school in Norway that was using Svelte as to learn software development because it was so simple to introduce to people. And you instantly get something on the screen. It's so simple to get started with. But yeah, that's my worry. Maybe it's unwarranted, but we'll see. I think we do need to see how it goes. The good news is that it's maintaining backwards compatibility. but yeah I think it might be to what extent does the it would be difficult if the take up of Svelte 5 is less than they were hoping I'm not sure how the backward compatibility is maintained as well as to whether it's basically I think the plan is to deprecate Svelte like the old syntax in Svelte 6 so it is going away but not yet there's it also depends a lot on what you're trying to build. Like I mentioned, I only really use SvelteKit. I let the load functions and the form actions handle all of the reloading of data and refreshing stuff. For me, Svelte 5 is mostly just I have to write more characters. We're talking about four characters per state thing, so it's not like it's a lot. And in some places you save some characters. And it also like I guess it more clear what state is Oh this is state rather than just some random variable Yeah I don know I mean, I think, because I was sort of saying how I was at that creative coding meetup yesterday where we were looking at using p5.js, which again, that's a great introductory tool. So it's a JavaScript fork of sort of processing. Ah, right, yeah. maybe re-implementation rather than a fork actually um and i kind of go i i'm not i i think it's a great thing to learn i i feel um and i think actually honestly you could you could definitely do amazing big things with it and i think it's just because i've kind of come from sort of other angles that i tend not to use that sort of paradigm but um right they've done an amazing job as well of like bringing in sort of really good libraries straight into it so you can just, which was sort of one of the demos yesterday, where you can just be like, I want a webcam and put hand tracking and it's just your... It just works. And that kind of thing. That makes it very easy to get started and actually build something that's interesting rather than like, oh, this box changes color when I click. So I'm thinking it might be, though, to some extent with that, that it's... So I think that still could be that the direction is that Svelte is... because you want to build the most kind of sort of valuable and best written sort of like thing there. And you could always be like, let's make a sort of subset and easier sort of idea of it, which is more, if there is that kind of thing of like where people are wanting to kind of, I think I agree with that. There's people who are wanting to build incredibly big, complex web apps of huge sites. Because even without the graphics that we build, are complex in their own way, but there's a different level because there's not that much statefulness and things like that actually going on. And then there's people who are more where you just want to code your own website but have a lot of control. So I don't know, I think it'll be hopeful that we can tune it to those different needs. I hope so as well. I don't want the case to be the, like, I just don't want people to, like, pick it up. Yeah. And then put it down because it looks too hard. Yeah. And it is also the case that like Svelte 4 is it looks easier probably than than it is Once you start using the reactive statements then it gets a lot more complicated than you might think It's funny actually though, because I've seen those long, which is I guess what triggered the whole change in a way, where there's a few issues around how, I think sometimes it's just a bit in terms of what's going on, where there's about three different ways of making something reactive. And they generate quite different code, even though on the conceptual level they look very similar. And then there's also where people kind of use that in a particular way because it's kind of, and to what extent you could say, it's not exactly, I mean, there's kind of like, there is the API. So within that, it's a valid use of the API, but you might be like, well, I wouldn't do it that way. But whatever it is that people have done, and then because of that they've ended up with sort of behavior that is not as they expect and it all sort of is incorrect. Yeah. And it's hard to know, really, with that. I mean, you could kind of be like, well, maybe if, you know, you took that app and you would sort of rewrite it in a different way and that behavior could be eliminated through other sort of, you know, design choices. But it feels like those problems are real. And so that is where I think that, you know, Svelte 5 has a sort of consistent sort of approach to things, which at least, it doesn't mean that it eliminates those problems, it just means that they'll be consistent. Consistency is great. It is, yeah. But I think with that as well, it's weird because I think we may now find as well that the use effect, the effect sort of rune is where strange things will be put into there. Yeah, people would just use that for everything, even for things that should be derived, probably, is my suspicion. Like, they're going to be like, why should I use derived when this thing... Because I'd be like, this thing isn't doing it when I expect. I'll just stick it in here. Because essentially that is, I think, the algorithm, the internal sort of thing. Oh, for sure. If something isn't working, I'll stick a dollar in front of it. Yeah. And actually it's weird how much we found a work where things that needed a dollar that we weren't expecting to. Right. And that's much more with SvelteKit. It's quite easy to forget that you have this sort of bit of data that you've loaded, and you think, oh, this never changes, but it does because when you're going from a page to a page... Yeah, when you go back and forth and... And things like that. Or if you're invalidating data in...

 function, then it reloads, and then maybe you accidentally destructured the data prop into const, what could it be, posts equals data. And then, oh, you realize now it doesn't update because I didn't put a dollar sign in front of the... Those kind of gotchas are going away, though, right? Because in Svelte 5, the data is ruined, right? So it'll be fine-grained I think so at least I'm pretty sure that's the case so you can do stuff like that actually one of the things I don't know I'm always keen to ask questions where you shouldn't hold back just because it might make you look stupid but is does fine grain because you have your template is it able to so I guess it still is attempting to render the entire template but it is able to be like as it's going through it, it will say this hasn't changed so we can shortcut going over that but it's not like it's kind of like if this variable maps to this bit here and that bit maps to there it's all still kind of one function so it's still doing everything but it's able to skip the bits it doesn't need to do is that the model? That's a good question I don't know I know there's I think it's in the first blog post when Rich announced runes. There's a video as well. And in that video, he shows a list where using Svelte 4, and you open, I think he opens the, what's it called? The Inspector. Oh, no, wait. He does something to show that the whole list re-renders in the old version, and then in the new version, it's just the bits that... I forget if he logs it or... I think he flashes, he has a... Yeah, that might be... There's a use, I think, which is kind of like when this thing is, you just play an animation to it. That could be it, that could be it. I'm not sure. Yeah, exciting times. Actually, I find it's quite often as well, it's like if you think you might need, or you could use another component, it's often good to do it. that components just the way I work and sort of have seen it that you get components that are too big And it very often as well things I found as well where it's much easier to solve it because the point at which the component is instantiated as well, it's then encapsulated the whole thing. And sometimes, yeah, I mean, like applying a, you know, a, what is the damn store called? Where spring, all of those things, say tweens and things like that but it's actually it's much easier often to break that down into a much smaller thing where you're like this is just the tweened version of this little tiny bit of dom rather than ups ups you know in the in the parent one trying to sort of like put the tween and put it in there and then complicate all the logic yeah yeah that makes sense because you're just like this is it and also because you know when it's kind of like this is it when it's created and you know so you know that you usually don't want a tween on the initial value and things like that right right yeah yeah so there's there's bits like that where i mean i know as well that people complain about because i haven't really used react i don't know about the the joys of this idea that you have all these sort of templates within one file yeah i mean i used to do i used to work in react and i i hate that like i i i absolutely hate it because it the files are so large and i know like yes you can search in the file you can go between methods easily and stuff but it's just like that mental overload of just seeing so many lines of text. I get really stressed once there's more than 300 lines. I don't know how some people do it. Yeah, I mean, 300 is a lot, in my opinion. I try to keep them small. It's subjective, right? If you like it or not. I think it's preferable to just have one component per file because it's clear. I suppose it's the difficulty of naming it and how much of your structure. I know this person at the London Spelt Meetup, how many did he say? It was up to 170 components or something like that. That does sound quite a lot to manage. It sounded also that they were using almost every element. It was an H1 and H2 title. I don't know if I'd do that. Were they possibly using ND Specs as well? because I think there's... That could be the case, yeah. ...where they were sort of trying to overwrite their own sort of logics onto it, but yeah. Then it makes sense, for sure. But I think even with that, you just have to sort of structure them into folders carefully and there probably a bit more refactoring goes on to keep them nice All right so we been chatting away for a bit Is there anything that we missed that you think we should talk to or do you want to move on to the spicy bits? Yeah, yeah, do the things. So, unpopular opinions. I told you before we started recording that you could bring up an unpopular opinion if you wanted to. I don't know if it's unpopular. It might be quite popular even. is that I think it's often the way it goes, it's a rant, is I think CSS just shouldn't exist. Wow. I think we've been doing it wrong. Kind of wild opinion. Yeah. Well, I think we've just, so it's also going way back in time, there was the CSS Zen garden. And for me, that was the philosophical kind of direction we should have been going in, where you would write your HTML in a kind of way that made sense to the content that it kind of was wrapping. I mean, the big, the huge caveat to all of this is that the web has become so much more like apps rather than documents. But, yes, still, I think with that, I still think that if we could talk to the people who make browsers, the actual developers who are absolute magicians, I don't know how it's all done. Yeah. But we have all these kinds of really complex layers and sort of like hierarchies and rules about, you know, our style tags and the sort of important tag and all of this. And it's so complex. and even just knowing what those specificity rules are is so mad. I mean, it's a job in itself of knowing CSS properly, right? And then there's all the, I know they've added, I forgot what they're called, is it Layer now as well, where you can kind of do that as well? I think you can even type CSS variables now in Chrome. And so that's it, it just feels like it's, as a language, it's got so complex and it's for designers we want to be able to design things in a nice way. And I think it would actually benefit us if we were just writing. And I think the browser could maybe help as well with having a sort of, or if we had a more sort of like standard, this is the way things are kind of looking. We're just doing it and then it's much easier to just apply style. And I think that would be much better as a browser tool. And I think it would also then, it could just write it out as a binary format. I mean, I don't know, because it doesn't really feel like this, the syntax is weird and complex and confusing. They're very different compared to anything else. And did you see the JavaScript framework that is made to look like CSS? It called Corset It cascading binding sheets Reactive UI without the complexity of SBA frameworks Maybe something to check out if you like CSS I think this could happen somehow. I think we'd need some browser genius to write at the level at which style sheets are actually being applied, to look at a format that would make more sense to the browser and just extract that out and then build from the browser a tool for making that. And then you would just add it on. Because that is the thing, we've always had it where it's like type equals CSS or something like that. If we could find this new format, we could just be like, let's add another link tag that is type of some better style sheet. Style. Yeah, and it was just like, if that exists, just throw away the CSS and use that. And I think that would actually lead to us writing better HTML. Yeah, because that's often an issue that people have. They're trying to write something that looks in a certain way rather than focus on the structure. And the structure is important for people that use the structure. There's been a bit of this with Bootstrap and a few other things, but we don't have globally shared CSS as well. I also remember that very, very early days of Firefox, In fact, I think they've removed this now. I'm not sure. But you know the way you could specify multiple style tags as style sheets and say that they were alt and give them a sort of title? And then Firefox actually had somewhere in one of the menus where you could be like, let me just do this. This was an early way of doing themes. So it was weird because that was so, so long ago. And then it sort of has slowly come back where suddenly, you know, it's weird that I feel like that's why I say about the CSS then garden because it feels like so ideologically, it was kind of like, this is one piece of HTML, but we can make it look so different. And it's taken sort of decades now. It's been like 20 years ago, I think, the CSS then, Galden, came out maybe more. Yeah, so it's pretty. And it's like, all the ideas have kind of slowly sort of come to fruition. It just feels like a lot of companies have just been forever trying to be like, we just want to make it like a PDF. Their whole goal has been to control exactly how it looks for everything. And then it's been like, well, you have to make it sort of, you know, for ages they held out and making sort of flexible designs. And they were like, we're just going to make it, you know, 1024 wide or something like that. And they know. We'll never have other screenplay.

 Yeah, and then so mobile phones really absolutely wrecked that, and they're like, you've got to have mobile and desktop now. And then now there's sort of light themes and dark themes, and you're like, and I mean, it's also all of the ideas with accessibility and things like that also come through. And it feels like it would just make, I mean, it's because it's absolutely not an easy thing. So I'm not saying like, CSS is really complex, and it feels like with that it's like people making beautiful style sheets that could be much more reusable across sites. You know, it's like it's actually the sort of preciousness about design. I mean, I can understand because obviously you want things to look really good, but I feel like there's, and I mean, it would be interesting to talk to a designer about this because I think they would also have this kind of thing where they do, a lot of designers, they like actually having a sort of a shared kind of. Like a design system. Yeah, a whole system like that, and that's it. And I don't think CSS really does that because it's kind of. Yeah, it's. Or you need tooling on top of it to make that happen. Yeah. You know. Yeah. You see this a lot where the cascading, because it's the cascading that doesn't really work. Yeah, super complicated. It flows down with complex rules that are not easily understood. And then you just smack an important on there. Yeah, and so there's this kind of systematic way. So I think it would be like how to merge those three things together where it's like we're writing good HTML, you have a design system that makes sense to designers, and then a sort of format that can actually efficiently encode this and an editor for controlling it. So that would be my big wish. That's a controversial thing. I do wonder how controversial that take is, though. A lot of people do not like CSS, but a lot of people do like CSS. Yeah, I think there's some amazing hacker out there who could build this. Or maybe it already exists and I don't know about it, but perhaps it starts as a plugin or someone does it as an explorer. I know there has been, like in some frameworks, there have been attempts at doing something like this. I think if you're familiar with Elm, Elm Lang, it's a JavaScript framework. It's like a 100% fully functional style programming language for the front end. And I have some vague memory of them doing styling in a very particular way Don remember what though so let see if I can find some example here This is great content for the people listening, just listening to me browsing the web over here. No, I can't find an example, but anyway. I know there's been some attempts of doing another style. I guess that's the thing. is I suppose a lot of the systems and frameworks we have for CSS in a way are trying to achieve something like this by then writing their own language, which is then turned into CSS. And that probably, to some extent, I imagine that might be the best way to go. Because I don't know whether hacking into the way that the actual is represented within the browser would make sense. Also, I have no idea if browsers represent it in the same way between them. Possibly not, I don't know. I have no idea. All right, that's how I'll take. So my unpopular opinion is that ORMs are not the way to go. The title here for my unpopular opinion is ORMs are shit, just use SQL. But I don't know if I want to go that far. So ORMs are, I generally always find them to be, so for those that don't know, an ORM is, I think it stands for Object Relational Mapping. Is that right? And it's basically an abstraction on top of either SQL or some other database. And it's supposed to help you interact with your database in a more convenient way, like handle writing common, like doing common things, like getting something, like a row from the database, or updating something, or deleting something. But I always find them to be lacking in some way, so I always have to write raw SQL anyway. How often, though? I mean, pretty often. And then also, I often find myself doing... So, for example, on the new Svelte Society website, I'm using SQLite, and the search is powered by a SQLite extension called Full Text Search 5, which is relying on a virtual table. and in the ORMs that I've been using I can't do anything with virtual tables because the concept doesn't exist so that one limitation sure I don have to do that much work with the virtual table or anything but still just having to So for example, I was using Drizzle, and then you define your table in JavaScript. You'd like const users equals Drizzle, blah, blah, blah, blah. You define the columns and stuff, but then there's no way to do it for a virtual table, so then I have to write SQL manually anyway and then have to manually make it go into the database, for example. Back in Rails days, it had Data Mapper and I was like, oh, I love this. Because I did used to write SQL. And it's also where there was, I mean, back then, SQL injection was a huge risk and problem. And I think it still is when it's easy to accidentally do it. I think if you do it correctly. Yeah. But that's the thing, right? But I also think that the tools nowadays are a bit better. Well, there was also, I mean, SQL injection was like the easy bug in some ways. But there was also a big problem where, say, for instance, where people would do things where it's like, you know, find orders for this customer ID. But they were kind of, they weren't always checking that the customer ID that was being sent to that was the same as the logged in person and things like that. You get someone else's orders. Yeah, and so Rails, I think, made a lot of those sorts of things where there were a lot of examples on that, but also making it easier to be adding on relational mappings like that. Text search is a bit of a strange one. It is niche, yeah. That bit of me is kind of like, well, you could just use solar or something like that anyway. Well, it's one example. Another one would be like triggers in SQLite, for example. Can't write that in an ORM. I don't know if you can. Well, also I use Prisma and it's very... I love the way that you define tables in Prisma. I really like it. It's much cleaner than the SQL way of doing it. But yeah, and then you're relying on them implementing everything correctly and mashing together the transactions correctly and then you end up in some weird bug So I recently stress tested the Svelte Society website the upcoming one and I added I think two million rows into the database just to see, can I actually fetch stuff without lagging the website? And it was very easy to do that. And with SQL, I had more control. I could do explain query plans so I could see how does the SQLite engine actually think about this and what's it going to do. Oh, I need an index here, so I'll add an index and then fix the performance issue I was having. Stuff like that, hard to do with an ORM. I mean, you can obviously combine, but you don't really know what the ORM is doing, right? Under the hood. I don't know, I'm pretty happy with Prisma. I mean, I feel like I do, you can ask it to print out what it's actually doing. Okay, yeah. Oh, that's good, that's good. So, I mean, I think also because of the, I mean, because of the typing as well, it's nice. Yeah, the typing is a big one. Yeah. For sure. But there have been some strange things. I mean, I know, because Prisma has its own kind of model around, it's been a little while since I've used it as well, but it was kind of like it has its own model around how transactions happen. so I think there might be some things where I've kind of been like well based on this is an internal app and we've only got a few thousand people tops using it the chance of in that tiny millisecond between you've kind of committed this thing and then you go and fetch it back or something like that whereas as a purist I would be like there's probably a way to write this in a single transaction or something I don't know even that I can't remember But certainly the transaction model is slightly different because it has to sort of map across different databases. I mean, that complicates things quite a bit, I guess. Well, I feel like I might have to look at it again as to whether there is actually, whether it was, I can't remember whether it was an actual problem or it was just that it was kind of different from how I would have done it if I didn't have Prisma. Right. But I'm not aware of there are any problems occurring as a result of it ever but I see what you mean I mean I think it depends how much kind of crud like stuff you're doing because I mean some people you have those kinds of things where you're just like you've got loads and loads and loads of tables and you're like all the thing is just about shunting it back and forth

 and that kind of thing. So just for the sort of typing alone. And then also migrations are really, I think they're quite nice generally. I don't think they're too hard writing yourself. I'm not saying, I think you can definitely be too small for an ORM to be worth it. I mean, or I think, well, back with Rails as well, because it was built in, and so you were just kind of like, data map was just there and you just used it. and there was, I think Rails had a really good sweet spot for, I mean actually it's interesting because SvelteKit hasn't really kind of gone in or taken any particular opinion on this yet or maybe it won't do, I think it probably won't I think it will Oh you think it will? Oh okay, well that would be interesting because there was that sort of thing with Rails where your sort of initial scaffold would be kind of like it would make a little table that was sort of editable and sort of map to a database table and that does cover an awful lot of kind of apps where it is just kind of you know taking things in and out of the table and sort of validating them right at some point and things like that so yeah i think i mean i think there is still rails is still going very strong as well i mean i think that's actually there's a there's a sort of an alignment there actually in that rails never became a big a dominant um right kind of player but it was very it's very influential then you have like laravel which is pretty big, I think. Well, to be honest, Rails probably is quite big. It's hard to know, yeah. I think it's bigger than we think it is. It's pretty hard sometimes to estimate how much these things are. Because I know as well, I go to, I don't so much now, but I used to go to an awful lot of hackathons. And it was always like, it was through the Rails community. So I was always going along, it was all these sort of other people doing Rails and stuff like that. And we'd meet people who were doing Python and Django as well and sort of go back and forth a bit about that. but it always felt like it was probably the same people and then sometime I went to this hackathon at Microsoft and it was all these people who were doing .NET and they were so different and we knew nothing we were just in total difference of what you were thinking about and their approach to stuff it was weird it made me realize how the differences between what we were talking about with the Python people was so minor relatively as to how we were approaching things Yeah, no, I mean, maybe I should give Aurams another chance. I do not like them though Yeah So you been using Prisma Yeah for a bit Prisma and then Drizzle I haven't tried Drizzle. It's similar. Maybe I need to be doing weirder things with them so that I start to hit them too. When you realize what you can do with SQL, wow. I mean, you could do field validation in SQL, right? You can also do some really weird things in SQL. I mean, that is very weird to do field validation and race an exception. But even just, some of the databases support it natively, but trees in SQL are really weird. Where you're kind of being like, well, I want to select all of the sub-trees of this, and people can do these really bizarre queries. They'll kind of do it and sort of flatten it all out and bring it back. But you're like, it's just... Unreadable. Yeah. I mean, I think, because I know for a while, Oracle was one of the few that did support this idea of trees, but I bet Postgres does it now. Probably. I feel like Postgres supports everything now. Yeah, that's it. You know, I never really... So the thing about using SQLite is that you kind of escape the N plus one problem where, like, you know, in a client-server paradigm, you have to go back and forth over the network. Even if the server is local on the same server, you're still going through the network because that's how it works. But with SQLite, you just have a file and you can just write very small readable queries and just do it sequentially and you'll see, oh, I'm getting the content, I'm getting the tags for the content, I'm putting them together. or whatever it might be, right? So maybe that's a reason why I don't feel like I need ORMs because the queries that I write are very, very simple. I think as long as you're not having security problems, then it's probably okay. And I know there's definitely tools, sort of lighter weight tools, which will kind of ensure that things are escaped and things like that. Yes, yeah. Yeah, I think most clients do that now if you use it correctly. Yeah, yeah, because I think that was the scary thing where people were just concatenating strings in kind of bad ways And yeah I definitely made some bugs like that in the past and definitely found some and things like that We see when the new Svelte Society website goes live We'll see how long it takes before we're hacked. Okay. But yeah, all right. Picks. Do you have one? Wait, I forgot now. Do you have one? I was going to say SQLite, but I've been talking about SQLite for so long now, so I'm just going to say London. It's a very nice city. I like coming here. It's great. Well, this is a technology one, which is interesting. It was at the London Svelte chat, and I've forgotten his name, but I've only just... It is a public repo, but there's this library called GUI. Oh, you're talking about Brady? Yes, that's Brady's, and I really like it. So it's a kind of thing for fiddling around with the properties of things. So I've been using Svelte tweet pane previous to this. Well, actually, I'm still using Svelte TweakPane because I only looked at GUI and been like, oh, this isn't awesome. Sorry, what's Svelte? TweakPane. TweakPane, all right. So I would highly recommend Svelte TweakPane. There's no, but he had been using that and it was essentially, he has some very, very fancy kind of audio and sort of visual kind of the tools that he's built and sort of that he needs a lot of kind of custom and sort of complex kind of abilities to tweak it. So also I'd say to any of your listeners, it's a bit like if you've used DAC GUI, which was a popular thing that the Google's Data Arts team made. But it's one of these sorts of things. So like digital audio converter? I don't know what it stood for. I think it might have just been like DAT. DAT. Yeah, I don't know whether it was like that. I don't know whether it was maybe it did start for digital arts team. It was probably digital arts team. I misheard. I thought you said DAC, like a digital audio converter thing. But I don't know. I think they also copied it from somewhere else. But it's one of these things, you know, where you see in a lot of languages and programming things where sort of the ability to tweak the values of things. And yes, Svelte Tweak Rain, I love, use it a lot. But I will be investigating GUI because it looked, and particularly as well because I have reached, which Brady was saying, that I've reached that point where sometimes I'm like, I want to make my own interfaces to things. It was a thing where I wanted to have a weird change in your relative position in time Right Because all the problems with times and time zones Oh, right. I am very well aware of time zone issues. Actually, that was an interesting thing, which I probably don't know enough about yet. But there was that proposal, or maybe it's even more, perhaps it's a further stage than that, but the new JavaScript time and time zone. Yeah, it's called Moment? No, that's the library. Oh, sorry, that is called... It's called... Temporal. Because actually, interestingly, other colleagues at Bloomberg works on it, I don't know which ones are, but they have some of the initial proposals. But yeah, it does... It's definitely something that has been quite bad in JavaScript, so I look forward to better things. But a lot of it as well is just, you realize how fundamentally complex time and time zones are. Yes, yeah. And the fact that there are time zones where the difference is 15 minutes or 30 minutes instead of an hour, which is what you... Actually, this would pop into the controversial things, which I'd need to understand somebody, to talk with someone who understands it better. But you know there's also this problem with leap seconds. We did a graphic on this ages ago. And so, because we've been adding leap seconds a bit, so I can't remember how. Are we like 15 seconds ahead now or something of that, of UTC? but I'm like one of the things I wondered is why can't we just let the leap seconds be applied to time zones or something like that it feels like because time zones are already weird so it feels like it would be better just put the weird stuff in the time zones and then to just be like UTC would just the thing I realize now is they're saying they can't really get rid of the 15 seconds either so this is like gap between UTC and the POSIX time zone isn't there something about the leap there's something about how if we would have made the year 13 months and 28 days or something then it would just have been like perfect something like that at some point it's kind of problems isn't it because the earth is slowing down well sure half of it they were like this was to theoretically please astronomers and astronomers are like oh we don't use any of that anyway because it's completely erased. It doesn't matter. They do something a bit like POSIX numbers anyway, just with their own atomic clock. Like SI unit, but for time or whatever.

 but it's interesting with alternative calendars a lot of those there's support for other calendars already I think in JavaScript I mean there are other calendars is it Arabic or Islamic calendar I don't remember what it's called but yeah we're not really I don't know how many people organize day to day on those This is a weird Wikipedia dive from ages ago, but the Kodak Eastman company apparently internally used their own calendar system until the late 60s or something like that. And you're just like, wow, that must have been so strange that you would go to work and there would be 13 months at work and there's only 12. Does that mean then that maybe there were a lot of different calendars that people were using that weren't standard? Yeah, quite possibly. Like, oh, at this company we use this weird calendar because... It feels strange that we haven't... It feels weird that if Kodak were kind of trying to advance things they were sort of like saying we think that this calendar is going to be better for our business needs or something like that I mean I suppose with that we found that it very hard but an improvement has to be really significant to be worth the kind of costs of the adaptation. And I think also the trouble with it is it's like unfamiliarity with it. And because with that, I mean, I'm like the kind of chaotic person who could be like, let's change everything. I'd quite like to change to a dozen-level number-based system instead of decimal. But I think that one's really fun now. Yeah, that's probably not going to happen. All right, and on that note, I guess we're done. Unless you have something else. No, I think that's a perfect point to end it. All right, it was great having you on as a guest. Well, actually, I'm at your place, so thank you for having me. Yes, we're both neutral guests. And to all the listeners, you will find all the links in the show notes and I will see you again next time. Probably not next week, but next time. Bye bye.