 How's it going everybody? Welcome back and let's talk about page options in SvelteKit and by that I mean the option to make a particular route server-side rendered, client-side rendered, or pre-rendered. This is something really, really powerful and we're going to build up our mental model in this video so you can apply any of these options to your application as needed. Now to really kind of kick this off, let's go ahead and hop into the docs because this is very clearly expressed so you can control each of these right our page options on a page by page basis so guys this is huge that means if we want our blog to be pre-rendered we can just do that with our blog and we can keep everything else server-side rendered or you know do whatever we need to do or if you want an admin section or you know at a particular dashboard to just be client-side rendered, we can do that. So this is really awesome. Now we can do this by exporting the options, which is very easy. I'm going to show you in a little bit from a plus page.js file or a plus page.server.js file. And you can just as easily use TS files. Okay. Now take a look at this. If you want to group pages and have a particular page option, you can just state this in the plus layout.js file or plus layout.server.js file. All right, simple enough. But let's go ahead and focus on this last point here. To define an option for the whole app, you can export it from the root layout. That's it. So if you want just one particular look or one particular page option for your entire application, just put that in the root layout and you are all set. So now that we have that out of the way, let's go ahead and take a look at some examples here so we can kind of get a feel of what's actually going on. So by default, right? SSR is true and client-side render, right? CSR is true. So you don't have to put this here, right? That, you know, it's unnecessary, but just know that is the case. And so if we go ahead and try to hit this route, right? And I'm just in about that it just the about route and I go over here you gonna see yes it runs in the client right And it also going to run on the server Okay So you seeing that this is truly working and you know this is a little bit out of the scope of this video because I'm really just trying to, you know, kind of hone in on the syntax here. But what you kind of need to know is that this, this particular route is going to run on the server and it's not going to have any interactivity. Okay. So it's going to be delivered to the client and then through the process of hydration, which you probably want to take, you know, look at, you know, what hydration truly is. There is something in the docs about that force felt kit. And then on the client, you know, uh, essentially the client is going to hydrate the page so that you do have that interactivity. And the real point of doing this is for SEO purposes, right? So your site can be properly crawled and then that interactivity comes in just a bit later. So that may be something to look into. Okay. But let's go ahead and just make this false. Okay. And once again, CSR being true, that's true by default. Okay. So we're not expecting this to run on the server. We're only expecting this to run on the client. So if I go ahead and just refresh this page, okay, great. Hitting the load function, but here, nothing. Okay, that's to be expected. Now, as you probably guessed, if we turn this off completely, okay, and both of them are false, well, guess what? We're not going to get anything. We're not even getting the little about page H1 right here. So now that we've kind of talked about these particular options, and by the way, let's also make that false and we'll just make this true. And so essentially what's going to happen is we're not going to ship any JavaScript to the client, nothing at all. So let's go over here and first of all, I should have shown you this. This button just has an on-click handler, right? We're just logging hit. This is JavaScript, okay? And as you see I clicking it and nothing happening The only thing I can really do here is I can hit that anchor tag Okay so I can obviously still navigate because that doesn involve JavaScript But, you know, if you have a particular page that has like zero interactivity, this may be a good option here. Okay, so now that we have that out of the way and you kind of understand, you know, how you can kind of control all of this, let's go ahead and talk about pre-rendering. Okay. Now, pre-rendering is pretty awesome. And it's going to look like this, right? Export const pre-render true. And essentially during build time, we're going to be building all of our pages so that we can just serve those pages on the fly, right? In production. We don't necessarily, you know, If we're not pulling something out of the database, there's no dynamic data, we can just kind of front load all of that work. Now, obviously, the build step is going to be a little bit more expensive. In most cases, that's not going to be a big deal. But if you have a really, really high-volume website, well, this is going to cut down on your server costs, and it's also going to make your site faster. So another thing to consider. And so in our example here, I just have some mock entries. okay and we are using this entries function right this is a particular function from svelte kit okay and what we want to do is we want to put all of our entries here and it's really important to show you that there is a slug property and that has to do with me you know naming this particular path slug and I'm using that parameter right there. And so kind of the next thing we need to understand is that each one of these entries inside here is going to run this load function. And this is the same load function that is going to feed this page, right? So, oops, let me go ahead and go back here. Perfect. So as you see, I'm returning this entry as post, okay? And if we just venture over here really fast, right? This is just using Svelte 5 of course I destructuring data and then post and then title and then post and text Okay And so each one of these entries is going to run that load function and we going to be building those pages one by one. Now, obviously in a real example here or like a real production application, we're not just going to be like hard coding our entries here. So you may want to hit like a CMS or you may want to hit like a database, get all your entries and then go ahead, use this entries function, and then really kind of work that magic just like you would on a normal page right here in the load function. Okay, so let's go ahead and put this to use. Let's go ahead and I'm going to run npm run build. Okay, and as you see, we're building our application, which is perfect. Now to see this, you know, output, right, we're going to run npm run preview just like that. And you're going to see that we're using a different port. So instead of, you know, normally 5173, we're using 4173. So let's go ahead and venture over there. Oops. Let's do 4173. Okay, perfect. And if I go to blog, we still have our blog page. and let me just go ahead and grab this slug right here. Hello world. I guess the next one is another blog post. Okay. And let me just paste this in here. And great. You're seeing that that page is pre-built and it's being served up right here. This is exactly what we want. And let's just for good measure, go to another blog post and boom, another blog post, just another blog post. So you're seeing that all of those were pre-built and this is a great way to not be hitting your cms all the time or not be hitting your database all the time especially if this information is not going to change so we've went over all the ways we can you know uh tune up our website or our app or even just at a route you know a route basis or a per page basis and so i really hope this helped you build your mental mental model around these page options. If it did, go ahead and give us a thumbs up and I'll see you in the next one.