 Welcome to Svelte Radio. Hello everyone. Welcome to another episode of Svelte Radio. So today we're coming from you on the day of the cinnamon bun in Sweden. Very nice. I'm Kevin, your host, or one of your hosts, and I'm joined by Sean and Anthony. What's up, guys? Hey, regular episode. Just us, just chatting. Yeah, it's pretty nice. It was a long time since we recorded as well, so it's going to be fun. It has. It's been a while. And the weird thing about this, I think the thing that tells me how long it's been is definitely kevin's hair obviously it's a podcast so you can't see it but it's got very long i'm quite impressed yeah it's time to get a haircut i'm uh i'm still giving myself a haircut because i don't want to go into a barber and yeah and yeah i so i don't know if people are still giving themselves haircuts probably i tried like i was i was getting my wife to do it but i went to my actual real like hairdresser and she's you know usually says kind of what what do you want to do this time you know what do you want and i just say well my you know my no no hair cutting skills wife has been cutting it for two years and i really like it so can you do what she does and obviously that doesn't go down particularly well but um but i can't describe what what i liked about it and it and it went pretty well so i've kind of got my my lockdown haircut has become my normal haircut now, which is kind of cool. That's got to be the case for a lot of people. They change their hairstyle and stuff. I was just going to say, I've been thinking about getting a shaver and actually doing a proper job instead of regular scissors. Do they call it Bicking It there? No, I don't know what Bicking It is. Because it's like, in the UK we have a razor called a Bic. Like a little cheap special razor. Isn't that a pen? It's a pen brand to me. BIC. It is as well, I think. I think it's both. Yeah, I think it's the same brand and they basically just branched out from disposable pens to disposable razors Yeah it just means shaving all your hair off Cool Updates We been continuing to build our app in Svelte at work and it's coming along nicely. We had some refresh issues with TypeScript and SvelteKit, but I think it's been solved. We may want to have Steve Kinney on, who's our front-end tech lead on this app. So that's my update on the Svelte side of things. in terms of updates for me well, Beyond got funded so we have that we got a 2 million funding round thanks to Fuel Ventures that's awesome, this gives us the ability to hire a much bigger team across the board across the whole company and scale the product to where we want it to be so pretty exciting stuff obviously funding comes with blessing and a curse, it's nice that we are we have the financial security but obviously scaling is hard and it's going to be an interesting journey trying to hire all these people. It's a journey I don't mind going on. A bit of experience in that. Sounds like a lot of fun. And I guess you guys are looking for Svelte developers? Indeed, that is absolutely correct. We are looking for Svelte developers actively. Everyone seems to be looking for that. You want a job at working at Beyond? Come and chat to me. Yeah, you're not wrong. There's quite a lot of jobs actually. I posted my job in the job channel on the Svelte Discord, hoping that it would sit there for quite a while. It didn't. It sort of got scrolled off pretty quickly. So again, it's both good and bad. It's nice that we've got a few jobs coming through now. Yeah. But you can have a look at jobs.bionc.com. There's plenty of different roles there. So please do. We'll put a link in the show notes as well. All right. Yeah. On my end, I've just finished the Svelte Summit website, which we're going to talk about in a bit. But I think before that we want to talk a little bit about the newsletter that just came out. So there's a bunch of new stuff. As always, you can find it on the Svelte blog. Regular old svelte.dev slash blog. And yeah, so there are some new features. Svelte body, you can now use actions on that. I'm a big fan of that, of course. So I love actions. It's not something I've been missing really, but I guess it's nice to have. What else? There something that I been doing more of recently because I wrote my own library for asynchronous JavaScript loading because obviously you can really guarantee when the library will be ready and you can start operating with it on the DOM Actions make that so easy It's just unreal. So I've got a sort of revitalized love for Actions now. Oh, nice. That's exciting. Yeah, so I think some of the showcases here, like the guy that built the macOS website. That was pretty cool. Did you guys see that? I did indeed, yeah. So that was first built in React, I think, and he changed it to Svelte. This is pure the dev. And am I right in understanding that he's actually, in terms of the development sphere, he's actually quite new to dev as well? I think he's a student. A student, yeah, okay. So his commercial experience isn't huge, but yeah, he's done a really good job of that. It's really impressive. We should probably have him on. I think this is how portfolios should be. Something impressive. I think when a lot of people, I think when they learn to code, they do the to-do app, and then FreeCodeCamp has to do a bunch of other sort of cruddy style apps. But I don't think it impresses anyone. I feel like if he wants to really have one piece that impresses someone, it's probably something like this. Yeah, I think he got a job from doing it as well. That's pretty great. Yeah, I think it is a soft job, right? Yeah. Yeah, I think that rings a bell, actually. Well, the thing is, I suppose this is your CV, especially at that point. This is your CV, and I think that I've always sort of felt that it's a really good way to get yourself out there. I've always thought it was a really good idea up until the point of actually implementing it or doing it myself and then I've always gone you know it's a shame because I would love to have one of these yeah basically the only homepage I have online since I was like 16 or something now is just a really basic static blog that has two posts in it because I also can't bother to blog right yeah yeah Let's see, what else is new? Brave Search is using Svelte. That's pretty cool. I guess they launched some kind of is it like a Google thing but just Brave version version that doesn track you All right cool Super impressive. We've also brought on Blue from the Discord as a maintainer. We've got a few new maintainers recently. Mouse, Blue, and obviously GregorFly, I think we've already mentioned. The maintainers team is growing quite a lot. And these are all people who've come from producing a lot of contributions to Spelt's core via pull requests and stuff. And enough that we've decided that they'd be a good part of the team. That's great. So there's a cool write-up here as well. Pretty long write-up. Let's see here. By the new stack? This is the new stack. Yeah, they just published this today. So I just figured I'd throw it in. I think nothing new, but it really recaps the state of things which have really progressed this year. So I figured it would fit the title that Svelte was growing. Yeah, definitely does. And it recaps, yeah, just the pros and cons for people who haven't heard of Svelte. So it's very introductory, but I think it's a pretty good write-up. So how do they do these write-ups without the kind of natural bias that you get? when you focus on one framework? How do they do that? Well, they don't focus on one framework. Sure, I guess everyone has favorites. Sure, I don't know. I think this guy, whoever wrote this, is a neutral-ish journalist. He's editor-in-chief at Container Solutions at Cloud Native Consultancy. maybe his job is just checking out new tools and stuff yeah sure I guess it's weird because for me the natural path is you look at these things and then you end up liking one and you sort of focus on that one a bit more and then it's very hard to be neutral I find at least from my own perspective it's very hard to be neutral so it's interesting to see someone writing or whatever who's truly neutral so his name is also Humble so I guess that helps his name is what humble he's humble humble literally yeah charles humble oh i thought it was johnny neutral all right let's see here

 What's next? Weekly Svelte? Yeah, so Scott Zielinski has been talking about... Well, so first of all, he's been talking about migrating to SvelteKit and he never really had an announcement announcement, but he at least put up a video on his YouTube talking about it. And now he's committed to producing a weekly series about Svelte. And I think he's about two or three episodes in now. And it's pretty cool. So people should check it out. I put the link in the show notes. And that's Svelte Fridays. Is that right? I think he's calling it Weekly Svelte. He was struggling with naming it for a while. That's for you all day. So yeah. So the most recent one I think is pretty cool because it actually exposed me to a couple of Svelte libraries that I haven't come across before. So Svelte DatePicker and Svelte Drag were new to me. And then he made his own Svelte Element Query Library, which basically uses an action to mimic container queries. Maybe I'm not a CSS expert or power user enough to be that excited about container queries. I understand it's something new, but sure, it's cool. Well, I'll tell you what. Yeah, his query library is just sort of a skeleton right now and it's in the works. But that Svelte date pick is worth a mention, actually, because it's interesting because obviously there's loads of date pickers out there and there's a few Svelte ones and they all kind of follow the same sort of theme, including my own one, which is basically a fork of another one. Now, Svelte Calendar has had a massive rewrite recently, so that's pretty impressive and it's looking very good. It's very animated and flashy. But what's attracted a lot of people to this one, this date picker that Scott's pointed out, and it is really, it's brand new. What's interesting about it is it's the opposite of flashy. It's really, it almost looks like a native built-in date picker in the browser. It's very basic. And for some reason, that's kind of its main selling point, that it feels like it's going to integrate well with anything. It's going to leave it up to you. It looks solid. It looks good, despite just being ultimately quite plain. Nice. Okay, let's check it out. Yeah, I'll stick the... the thing in the show notes. Yeah. Sounds good All right So let talk about the new Svelte Summit website So I just published it You should be able to see it on SvelteSummit right now If you haven't already. See here. No? Of course it's down for some reason. Or is it? No, it looks great. It really reflects the whole theme. It's great color choices. As usual, designed by Wilfr. He's done all of the Svelte Summit websites so far. I really like the color scheme this time around. Yeah, yeah. I do, yeah. It looks orangey as well. Yeah. So I've been spending a couple of days building this and I realized while doing it that SvelteKit is really nice and it's so easy to work with. Is there anything about this version compared to previous versions? I guess it's SvelteKit rather than Zapper. Yeah, so the last version was in Elder.js, I think. but I decided to rebuild this from the ground up. Another thing I realized while building this site is that CSS is awesome. Regular old CSS. Really? Yes. Explain. It actually is quite nice. I recently bought this course called Every Layout. It's a bit about how you build using CSS. How do I explain this? how you do CSS as a general concept rather than making specific things for each small block of component. I don't know. Anyway, it's been a lot of fun. I've been moving away from actually having my styling inside of the components because I don't find it that much. Shot car out. Yeah, I know, right? Wait, what? What do you do? So I just have one big file. Maybe Rich is crying right now. Maybe Rich is crying. It is actually very nice in a way. So instead of having, for example, a button component you just have a button class Right And you don really need a component for a button I mean this isn a wild idea Kev You're not breaking new ground here. I know, I know. But Svelte has its scoped styles, so it's a bit of an unpopular opinion in the community, maybe. What if you need a disabled button or a hover button? Then you need to modify it. Not really. And then you need to put your element classes in blocks. You have to use a block element model so that you know what part of your CSS refers to what part of your site. Block element modifier, block element modifier. Yeah, right. It's a bit of an exaggeration. I have been using the scope styles as well for some things. So I'm not a complete heretic yet. Yeah, I use a mix. I use global styles because my site has a theme, obviously. And then I put, I guess I overrides and anything pertinent only to just this part of the site I put inside the component. But my component styles are generally lighter than maybe. Because I know that Rich strongly believes that all styles should be in a component. There should be no global style sheet. it's quite a different approach. And I don't know how that works in terms of theming an entire site because you've got no base to extend from. There's no inheritance there, right? There's no cascade. So I don't know how it would work out. I think you'd use just CSS custom properties. Yeah, I guess that's one way of doing it, I suppose. I think you have to be really into your CSS for that. so you have to know that you've got this whole library of and again it didn't work with IE until recently it didn't work with IE IE was important until recently sort of important and you had to use the pony fill which you have to kind of execute with JavaScript and stuff and there's a flash of a style there's all sorts of problems with it but yeah the CSS variables definitely is a workable approach but I think it needs to be very good at handling that so I don't think I'm at that level yet I mean, I'd like to get there, but I'm not that little yet. I can definitely recommend playing with CSS. It so much fun when you kind of get it So I think one thing I found is that like so Tailwind for example brings it to the other extreme right They have only classes and they have utilities, like all of the classes are utility classes, right? But I find like you can do both, right? You can have utility classes that do certain things. Like you could have a utility class that makes a box for a card, for example. It doesn't have to be just one class, one property. I find that's a nice midway between the two extremes. Yeah, I mean, isn't that kind of the tailwind approach where you've kind of got, it's almost like a class does a certain thing. It's not quite one-to-one or anything like that, but it's... Pretty much, I think. Yeah. It's pretty much one class, one property. All right, let's move on from CSS. So another thing that I found is the email enhance action that is in the example project. I don't know if you guys have seen that, but it makes it easier to work with forms when you don't have JavaScript in your SvelteKit project. So you just build your form like you would in a backend framework, and then you enhance it using this action. So it doesn't do the actual form submission. You said you got it from an example project. What do you mean example project? Yeah, so the SvelteKit, when you init a new SvelteKit project, you get to pick between an example project and a skeleton project. So the example project has this enhanced action in it. I'd recommend checking it out. It's pretty nice. And then last but not least, I spend a lot more time than I want to admit on this thing. So color spaces are really cool and most monitors only show a certain number of colors, right? But there's this DCI-P3 color space that's 25% larger. So if you have a particular monitor, you can see 25% more colors. But the only browser that supports this is Safari, right?

 which is interesting. It's usually the other way around, right? Every other browser supports everything, but Safari is last. But for this, it's the other way around. And it's been like that since 2016. So you would use this for if you want colors that are a bit more intense. And so I've been playing around with this on the Svelte Summit website. So if you're using it with Safari on an iPhone or a Mac, you'll get colors that are a lot more intense and vibrant than if you use, for example, Chrome. Does my iPhone support these colors? Yes. Okay, interesting. I suppose it makes sense that Apple supports it because they are design-y focused. Yeah. Does it progressively fall back to normal colors? I don't know how this works. Yeah, so the way I've made it work is I have a CSS property that, well, I'm using the at supports thing for CSS, and I'm redefining the variable in there if there's support. So if it doesn't support it, it just falls back to a less fun, popping color. Wow, wow, look at that, wow. It is? I can't see it. Sorry, I can't. What am I looking at? Anthony is holding up his phone to the camera here, and we're in awe. Amazing colors. Of course, if I show you this on the screen here, and then it goes through all the internet and comes out with your monitor on the other end, then you can't see what I can see anyway. Because I'm using Chrome anyway. I mean, it looks nice, but then a lot of things look nice on this phone because it's shiny and new. Right. Am I seeing more than 16.7 billion colors? So you don't use an iPhone and he just told you that this thing only works on iPhone. It's an iPhone. Oh, it is? Okay, okay. Oh, is it the new iPhone? It does look bright. Hey? Is it the new one? Yeah, it's the new, new one. Well, I threw my iPhone X in a hot tub just before, well, like last week. So this got released almost the next week so I bought it Sounds like planned off the lessons to me Well it a waterproof phone so I was like I just take it in the hot tub and take some photos and I did and then I dropped it in there. I was like, oh, no, you know, joking. What did you take photos of? People in the hot tub, including myself. See, no, I did, right? So I was taking it, it was just me and some friends, I was taking some photos, you know, as you do. But the weird thing about this is that I could never prove to you that what I'm saying is true because obviously the photos are only on the phone and therefore were not backed up. So I've lost the photos that I was taking that caused me to drop the phone. So I can't prove I was taking photos off. That sucks. At least you can marvel at the colors on the website. So all of the browsers on iPhone actually use this, right? Because all of the browsers use the Safari rendering. They're all Safari. But there are ways you can actually get this working on Chrome and Firefox as well. So I've done that. The way you do that is by, you actually have to use a CSS background with a one-by-one pixel of the color. Then you have to repeat that color and then background clip the text. So the color on the title text, for example, should be in this DCI 3P3 color space, even on Chrome on the desktop. It's just that it's a background of a simple pixel that's just repeated. So that was a bit tricky to get working, but it was a lot of fun to build this website. That's pretty much it. I guess we should talk a bit about Svelte Summit in general. I think so, yeah. Yeah, so it's on the 20th of November. It's a Saturday this time around, so people can have an after drink or whatever they want to do. The CFPs are open, so if you have a fun talk you want to do, you should submit one or two. We want all kinds of talks. Is this like just hammer it until we'll get through, or is this a constructive way of, you know, different topics and see which one gets in I don know It not like scattergun approach is it No We don even know how long the events we targeting for So we have to work backwards from there to figure out how many talks slots that we have and therefore how many we can accept. So I feel like there's a bit of... We probably need to meet about that. It's okay to get CFPs now, but we'll have to figure that one out. Yeah, the CFPs are open until the 30th of October, I think. Okay, yeah. Gives a good amount of time to record. Everything pre-recorded again, right? Yeah, like last time. I think it's working well. Yeah, agreed. And there's also, if you work at a company that wants to sponsor Svelte Summit, there are a couple of different ways you can do that as well. So there's a sponsor page that you can take a look at on the website and reach out to me if you're interested. And yeah, that's Svelte Summit for now. And I'm still very keen on organizing a watch party in New York. because I think that that would be an interesting way to kick off the summit and just restart in-person events. I see you have meetups on your agenda, so I figured I would throw that in there. I was going to mention that. So there's two meetups that are currently, at least two, that are opening up immediately, well, as soon as possible, aren't there? So Stockholm and hopefully London. So we've had somebody step forward to help us organize London again. Do you have a date? no we don't yet do you have one for Stockholm no? no probably like a week before Svelte Summit or even a watch party watch party yeah that could be fun we've just started discussing ours so we're not quite sure when it'll be yet but yeah back to normal life kind of yeah be safe of course Cool. That's awesome. It's exciting. Yep. Twice a year. Yeah. And in person next year? That's exciting. Yeah. Who knows? I hope so That be nice Yeah They actually just removed all of the restrictions over here We back to normal now Well as normal as normal can be at the moment I guess The new normal. Yep. Yeah. All right. Anything else or do we want to move on to unpopular opinions? Unpopular picks. I can go with the first one if people want. So this is, again, an imported unpopular opinion, but I think it's interesting. I interviewed Mishko Hevery, who was the creator of Angular. And now he's left Google and now is working on a new framework called QUIK, Q-W-Y-K. And he has a side passion in metabolic health. He doesn't eat vegetables. and he's just pure carnivore, including the seed oils for cooking. So no corn oil, he uses lard, that's it. And I was just shocked when I learned about this because the only way I know how to cook is with oil and I just can't imagine cooking any other way and he opened up my mind. So I'm going to try it out. But I think it's a very personal thing because he found he had a reaction to eggs that were cooked with the wrong oil. Oh, wow. Maybe if you haven't experimented with the diet and how it affects your mood and your health, it's worth checking out. But he has a very strong view that it should apply to everybody. Yeah. Wow. Yes. Did you guys know that McDonald's used to fry their French fries in lard instead of oil? Way, way, way back. Sounds amazing. Sounds great. It does, right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I did know about this. And they now put beef flavoring on them because they obviously do them in oil now. Oh, I didn't know that. Yeah, that's why they say it's the oil. That doesn't surprise me. All right. Yeah. Well, that's no zeroes. All right. My unpopular opinion might not be unpopular. It might also be unpopular. Who knows? Regular old CSS is king. So I've been raving a bit about CSS on this.

 episode and I think I'm going to stick to my opinion that CSS is pretty nice. Like the old way of writing CSS. It's actually nicer than it might seem at first for people that dislike it. What? Float right? Float right. Use GIFs. Definitely try and use GIFs for spacing. Table layout. Yeah, tables for layouts. You name it. Does this mean that your love for Tailwind is dwindled? I don't think I have ever really loved Tailwind I think I'm the token Tailwind person here I thought you were both Tailwind inclined as it were I'm very Tailwind inclined I want to build a Svelte Repo that also has Tailwind so that I can just copy and paste components Right, I mean it's a nice idea for sure Someone else could do it Alright, do you have an unpopular opinion entity? I have loads of them, I just don't know any of them right now I'm always hating on something there's always something that's bothering me and I can't remember what it is now I've seen you tweeting a lot lately about customer service or something out some weird companies. Yeah, I can rage about Samsung forever. Don't buy a Samsung TV. I guess we are. Don't buy them. I don't think it's a good company. I think buy LG all the way. You just lost our Samsung sponsorship. Oh, well, never mind. We don't want them. Don't sponsor someone else. Yeah, I'm just, you know, it's kind of a personal experience thing with my guests, but one of their TVs we had, it broke after two years and they literally couldn't be any less interested in the fact their TV lasted two years for a 4K TV as well. It's like, all right then, I'm not interested in buying any more. Simple as that, really. Yeah. Yeah. And I'm saying it's a known fault and they're saying, well, we haven't got a log of it being a known fault. Well, I'm like, well, if you search it in Google with the word Samsung, you find maybe a hundred people plus with the same exact problem. That a known fault by definition right Whether you log that or not it a known fault Unless all their customers are making it up some kind of weird conspiracy against Samsung probably not. It's not an unpopular opinion. Being treated, getting terrible customer service for a product and hating them for it is not an unpopular opinion. No, I agree. That sounds legit. It feels like it's a playbook of larger corporations to do stuff like that. They kind of just pretend there's no issue and it's like, oh no, we haven't noticed this. We haven't seen this. Just so they can refuse you. Exactly. And also one of the forums I was reading mentioned that one customer had had their TV replaced by Samsung for the same problem. I'm like, well, if that isn't the definition, are you just giving out freak TVs or what? If that isn't the definition of a known problem, then I'm not sure what is. So yeah, not in my good books for sure. Yeah. All right, let's talk about picks. I've got one. Swedish cinnamon buns. You should all go to Ikea right this moment and get some cinnamon buns. it's the national Cinnabon Day I like cinnamon buns you didn't find them here much do you know if they're different from the rest of the world cinnamon buns I think the main difference is just that they're not they don't have that glaze of sugar thing that's pretty common I think there's even a company called Cinnabon Cinnabon yeah they're in the uk as well yeah so it's without that so it's just the vanilla stuff in between like the real in between the layers there's no there's no vanilla in between cinnamon sorry sorry cinnamon i mean in the inside there yep and it's kind of rolled up yeah yeah it's tied up in a cool shape I don know it not super cool And then you can have some sugar on top it just not the glaze stuff It not very common There a place in Soho in Golden Square called Nordic Bakery and they do what you're describing, I think. And they're really good. It's a good day to get some cinnamon buns. Yeah. Nice. Sean, you got a pick? Yeah, I can go with mine, which is a YouTube video I just recommended to my Discord called How to Be Miserable for the Rest of Your Life. This is basically the opposite of all the motivational video advice that you see. And if it resonates, then if it basically describes you, then I think it really helps to wake you up into how you could probably, you know, get yourself out of a rut, which I think, I think, I mean, some of us will apply because we're all, you know, flawed in some way, but I just thought it was a very interesting inversion of the regular trope of, you know, you can do anything if you put your mind to it. And so I think sometimes when, when people, you know, when you're not getting a message across, if you just invert it, people can really respond to it very well. yeah happy and miserable for the rest of your life so examples procrastinate, make sure your house is a complete disaster, focus on things you can't control use fear as a motivation, only do what is comfortable, believe you are special so, oh I like the last one see life not how it is but how you wish it to be that is kind of a motivating thing like the last one if you want to shape the world into something you like. If you're in a rut though, if you're in a rut, you're thinking of the world a long way. It sounds nice. I'll definitely watch this. It's a seven minute video. Worth a watch. Yeah, I think these motivational videos can be kind of over the top often. and they're just like yeah so exaggerated so my pick is Lumen Kutcher I think that how you say it LED face changing mask also known as shining mask which may just be a really weird translation. But essentially, this is like a mask that goes over your face, your whole face. And it's covered in LED, like an LED panel. And then you have an app on your phone called Shining app or something like that. And you basically can upload videos, photos, whatever you else want to it, and it will show them on your face. and so some of the product demos have like this lady who's who's turning her head kind of looking around and it's on your face and it's a really kind of weird you know it's like you change your own face it's very strange um but yeah i bought one of these masks because i'm going to a i'm going to a rave uh because i'm i'm at that age and i'm not but you know i am anyways and i thought this was kind of a cool a cool way of doing things uh so i bought the mask and i i don't know i'm going upload to i'm gonna upload some some places maybe some videos i don't know just to basically freak people out i think it'd be quite fun uh have you tried space age maybe i've tried it yes i've tried it briefly it's only with the stock stuff that comes on it um but yeah my plan is to is to get some unique looking videos together before i i get to wear it so yeah it should be good fun but it's i mean it's when you watch it on the product videos it's actually amazing it's it's really cool like really well thought out they also apparently do like a regular like a covid mask as well that just has that AD panel on it. So you can do your own animations and videos and messages on that too. So yeah, it's cool. Sounds awesome. I want one. Yeah. That's a really good product. There's a link on the show dialogue, but it's basically from Etsy, I think. Yeah, it's cool. All right. That's us for this episode. Let's do it more frequently in the future, I think. I should also mention that we have a Patreon and we actually have six patrons at the moment that are supporting the show which is awesome we definitely do we should read these people out next one we'll read them out give them the credit where credit is due let's do that alright until next time take care guys Bye-bye. Bye.