 Welcome to Stealth Radio. Vercel is the platform for front-end developers, providing the speed and reliability innovators need to create at the moment of inspiration. Founded by the creators of Next.js, Vercel has zero configuration support for 35-plus front-end frameworks, including SvelteKit. We enable the world's largest brands like Under Armour, eBay, and Nintendo to iterate faster and create quality software. Try out Vercel today to experience the easiest way to use Svelte. Hey, everyone. It's Svelte Radio. We're back, and this is Kevin, and I've got Anthony and Brittany with me. Hi guys. Hi. Did you like my new exciting intro voice? Good to say, are we just doing new voices today? Yeah, I think so. Yeah, yeah. It was very odd. It was very odd. I liked it. You need to have fun with this, right? You know? Sometimes I wish that there was video on this to see how big our eyes get. Who is this person that's talking? All right. So another Svelte Radio episode. Um, what's up? What have you guys been up to? I think we always go first. Why don't you go first today? Okay. Yeah. I, I've, I've cut my hair. I no longer have the long hair. People were, uh, were shocked when they saw me. I was like, what did you do? Yeah. It's so nice. I don't have to, I don't have to care about the, all the long hair. Yeah. Dropping everywhere. It's probably like changed your face shape and everything. it's made you look like quite a different person yeah people tell me I look a bit younger I don't know who knows confirmation from two people here it is yeah it is very nice actually I think I'm going to stick with this haircut going forward for a bit until I get lazy and stop cutting my hair and then get the long hair again you know no I've been I been doing stuff been working on the Svelte Society website the Svelte Hackathon website and the Summit website And yeah there a lot of stuff to I think you've got several linear project or parallel projects going on at the same time. Lots of plans coming. It is a lot of stuff that is, like, time-wise, it's going to happen at the same time, kind which is a bit stressful but it's fine. You need to ask for help. Yes, yes. And I have as well. I did on Twitter and I've got a lot of people reaching out to me to help with the video editing stuff for the last Svelte Summit which needs to get done. But yeah, the Svelte Society website is coming along nicely. I've gotten to play around a bit more with grid template areas again, which is always fun. It's so nice nowadays. You can just use for placement of stuff. You just use grid template areas and that's it. You don't need anything else. It's amazing. I like them a lot. Yeah. So that's done. Well, almost done. Just need to move over all the content and finish a couple of pages. Moving the content is going to be fun. We'll see how that goes. But I might recruit some helpful people from the Svelte Discord at some time to help me with that. Is it open source yet? No, not yet. But it is going to be a good old monolith application with SQLite. It's going to be fun. I ended up ditching Pocketbase. It's nice, but I wanted more control over the database and stuff. SQLite is a nice basic database. yeah yeah it's it's it's underrated is what i'd say but yeah that's me all right anthony you want to go yeah uh well i just predictable uh my life is dominated by work and children children well a child but i say children because it's it's everything involved around it isn't it it's it's a child implies the presence of other children that they're at nursery and things like that. So children, you know, going from before where I never encountered any children at all, and now there just children everywhere So all I see is children But yeah work you know it just the usual really It just really busy Startups are pretty hectic. But going well, all exciting stuff. You know, a lot of the stuff we're doing is just iterating on features, adding features right now. And, you know, doing the gradual migration from SAP to SvelteKit piece by piece by pulling parts of applications and rebuilding them, basically. yeah which is it's a shame there's no migration path but at the same time you know the migration path would have not really worked for us anyway because there's so much sort of intrinsic code i've done over the years to try and make things work and maps and urls and all this kind of stuff that migrating is impossible i feel like at this point too sapper is very different from what svelte kit looks like today it should be it is i mean the core of sapper is still somewhere buried down in there inside SvelteKit. You know, not all the code is fresh and new and stuff. But yeah, you know, the more, the deeper we go, the more we move away from what Sapper was and SvelteKit. Like the developer facing stuff, the routes and the way you do loading and all of this stuff. I mean, just on the surface level, like looking at them side by side now would be shocking, I think. Yeah, well, it's, I mean, the surface level absolutely is, the core is the kind of critical weight that's still there you know even the routing which was a big part of sapper has now changed so there's definitely there's definitely not a lot of sapper left but the good bits are in the middle because you know sapper is showing its age a bit but it's still fundamentally a good product i'd still take that over a lot of the other offerings out there even if even the more modern offerings um but svelte kit definitely is is is a game changer and um and it's a pleasure to work in you know a lot of our stuff moving into monorepos they're a bit controversial obviously but the thing about monorepos for us is that it allows us to share components keep things co-located and do individual piece-by-piece deployment so when we deploy an application to production we just use change sets and and tag it as we would as we would any other library and it are you that triggers a release pnpm workspaces or what are you using through? We are using, well, we're using PMPM mono repos and change sets within PMPM GitHub actions for all the automation and we using Volta for controlling the node version but I understand that there actually a better way through PMPM I think to control the node version now So it one of those things that given time we get to And, you know, there's always something changing somewhere. A slow path, yeah. Yeah. And, yeah, if only we could use jQuery all the time. We should have Scott Talinsky back on to talk about that whole migration that they did too because that's another big one that went through the whole migration. I know he moved from React to SvelteKit, but it's still relevant. Yeah. He probably experienced all of the major breaking changes there at the end of the SvelteKit development cycle as well. So that'd be interesting to talk about. And as well, now that it's released, how is he finding it and all of that? Yeah, for sure. I can reach out. It's funny because we did do a bunch of early migrations to SvelteKit for some stuff. And as I go back now and I just, the first thing I do, like muscle memory is upgrade it to the latest felt kit and every single version, because they're all next versions are slightly different. And I see the decisions we made over the past and like, oh, that's much better. Yeah. Validating. Validating, validating various choices made, but also, yeah, you know, it shows you the path of the path of thought and how it works out. Yep. Makes sense. Yeah. Well, I think for me in the last episode, I was still on the job hunt interviewing a lot, but happy to say that the job hunt is finally over. And as of recording next Monday, I will start as staff engineer of design systems at Provy, which is a B2B alcohol solution distribution system for the United States. But I'm going to be maintaining their design system and helping create a component library in Svelte. And they work with SvelteKit, which I'm very, very excited about. I think they're migrating an Angular legacy app into SvelteKit. And then I think they also have a React app that they're moving to SvelteKit. I'm going to let you finish. I'm going to let you finish. But I just want to say that an alcohol solution is beer. Right. Carry on. It's meant for restaurants, bars, grocery stores. Everybody in the States has to order through different distributors for each type of alcohol. So beer could be.

 be like different companies that sell beer would be a different distributor. Liquors, different types of liquors would be from a different distributor. So they have like a salesperson that's kind of this middleman and they go to the distributor. So it's three steps basically for one type of alcohol. So what ProView does is it has them still have their sailor and their retailer, but they can order right in the app. And it's all in this one UI that's familiar to them and it goes out to the correct people oh so it just kind of centralizes the process of a hundred different distributors yeah it's trying to help and solve the ordering issues with alcohol i think in this country every every beer distributor is just first drinks they seem to own everything and um and they're also rubbish and i hate them they uh they took my favorite rum and they destroyed it so screw your first drinks yeah how are you now going to make your what was the the cocktail again the the one that you you had in in at sveld summit and the caribbean bar oh the painkiller painkiller that's the one that you got the mug for the one i got for the mug for i definitely ever paid for that mug i was too excited to see it and i went on the website when i got home and it was like ten dollars and i paid i paid about 30 euros Oh my gosh. Well, I got excited. What can I say? What's in a painkiller? A painkiller is, the recipe is four to one one, depending on how you like it. So four parts pineapple, two parts pusses, navy gunpowder proof rum, and one part, I think you can do with or without orange. So either one part orange and one part coconut cream, and then some nutmeg on top. and it's amazing that sounds like the best drink ever oh yes because it is the best drink ever but the other thing is um you can change the amount of rum in it to make it stronger or weaker so it can be like it can be four one one one or four four one one whatever you want to do really um and yeah it's got an amazing story behind it if you visit their site the stories i mean i imagine the story's mostly true maybe somewhat embellished about a navy captain marrying the owner of the soggy dollar bar in the in the in the bvi british virgin islands just to steal the recipe and she still refused to give him the recipe and so he divorced her and stole the recipe anyway and he went back to his ship and got his cooks to like reverse engineer it and they and they found the what the recipe might be in and that what the drink is coconut cream a liqueur or is it no it coconut it coconut cream it like actually yeah okay interesting um it's like you could use coconut rum or pineapple rum too yeah you could but one should not one should not adjust the painkiller this is a perfect drink because it wouldn't be a painkiller it's it's like when you talk about people making carbonara and they add onion and uh whatever it is cream or something that's very popular here it's yeah it's exactly and it's not quite true and also i think that the way the way that you would find an italian bolognese uh is nothing like the italians would make it and has alien ingredients they never would put in there yeah and they get very offended by it which is quite funny because i'm like some meatballs in there um i was gonna say yeah carbonara i i got um well i said i got my wife really ordered but um the new huell pasta pasta one so huell is like a huell is like a a meal alternative it's like a generally a milkshake that you you shake up the powder with some water and it's a it's like a meal replacement thing not replacement because it doesn't really replace it's designed to give you a guaranteed exact amount of calories and a guaranteed exact amount of nutrition so if you drink it all the time it will give you all the nutrients everything else and it tastes pretty good you know it's mostly but it's pasta flavor well so now they've released they released a bunch of food ones before and they were a bit ropey i didn't really like the taste of them but they've released a new range now which is things like they've got spaghetti carbonara they've got um bolognese with kind of meat type things in it and they're gonna sound nice honestly honestly it's so good and and um they released oh and a mushroom like a mushroom pasta one as well honestly it tastes great i'm actually really enjoying it like i look forward to eating it now is it like a soup can you warm do you warm it up it's it's a bit like a soup yeah you have it boiling water um okay the milkshake once you cold water now i do have like a protein soup that's like a powder that you can pour in and yeah eat like a soup that is okay to me so so yeah the original food ones they had were they had like seeds and nuts and things in them are very kind of all this like stuff to make it textured and they tasted like crap and they were horrible and i thought this is i never ate them we threw them away in the end but now that with the pasta one they kind of nailed it just the flavors are pretty good um like the carbonara tastes like it got there a cream in it and it hasn't of course because they're all vegan as well um but it tastes like cream somehow and it's just nice it's really nice happily eat it for and it's it's a time saver right for me we have it because i can't but to think about what to eat or how to get nutrition or how's my stuff in the fridge gone off i just want to make this take 10 seconds put some boiling water and done like it's great that actually sounds pretty good i was thinking of slim fast like the milkshake it's not it's not for weight loss it's for it's for if anything calorie control it's the cat is for giving you every scoop is 200 calories and that's it so if you want 400 calories two scoops 600 three scoops and so on yeah but food is like the thing some people yeah chewing like actual like texture and like yeah and the tastes and the smells and all of that you know but look i'm a massive foodie right i eat the finest food i get my hands on all the time and one it's really really expensive we're spending a fortune on food yeah um but the other thing is it's like i love to do that and go out and have a meal but i'm not good at every meal I hate takeaways. I hate ready meals. I haven't got time to cook. So I basically go, what am I going to eat? Well, I might as well just eat something that's exacting and nutritious, right? Sure. Fair enough. And then have fried chicken for dinner. But you can because you know how many calories you've had. Fried chicken is so good. Anyway, we have like two separate tangents now. All right. So new job next week. That's cool. Yeah. Nice. So should we get into some Svelte stuff? Absolutely. Oh, yeah. That's why we're here. I forgot. It is a Svelte podcast after all. I was joking before we started about this turning into an Apple podcast. But it's turned into food and alcohol. It's turned into food and alcohol instead. Yeah. Why not? It's fine. All right. So the first topic we wanted to talk about is the hackathon. So the hackathon is a thing that we're running with prizes and cool stuff that you can win. And the site goes live on the 30th if everything goes as planned And there should be more information on there like what categories you can submit January 30th Yes Because February doesn have 30 days in it That is correct. Yes, January 30th. So with a good chance, like the site and the announcement has already gone out. But this is an extra announcement for you. Yes. Go check it out. Go submit some cool stuff. Are there plans you can talk about yet? or do you want to wait for the site to go live? I'd rather wait until it's live. Another announcement, we have weekly hangouts starting up pretty soon with someone called E-Train on the Discord. I'm not entirely sure what his real name is, so sorry E-Train. You will have to tell us your real name at some point so we can talk about you. Well, I mean, we could still talk about you with your Discord name. Something I found out about them that I did not know was that they helped maintain carbon design systems. Yeah. The spell components for that. And I thought that was really cool. I'm very interested in picking their brain. Yeah. And I forgot about who that was. Yes. Perfect. Yeah. So he's going to run a weekly hangout on Discord, basically, that you can join. And so the concept that we're going to try is everyone is muted by default. So it's a bit like stages, but with video and audio so that E-Train can show a screen or someone else can show their screen, etc. And then if you want to talk, you ping them and he or someone there will unmute you so you can speak or ask a question or whatever. So that's going to be fun. good format we've used that before in other discords where everybody starts out muted and then there's a moderator that can unmute yeah so go check out the uh the hangouts um there will be more precise details with like dates and times and stuff going uh going forward and if you're into discord show up on discord events yeah yeah exactly and probably we're going to announce it There's a hackathon and everything in there. Yes. Yes, for sure. Yeah. And then there's the What's New in Svelte. That's the newsletter that comes out once a month. This one's the February edition. I think, have we ever talked about how to get into the newsletter?

 like what channels to post in to get your stuff shared? I don't think we've talked about it specifically. Maybe we've mentioned it in passing sometime. Yeah, I didn't remember. I think that would be a good thing to call out. I think Site Showcase in the Discord is one of them. I think, yeah, Site Showcase and the Resources one, whatever that's called nowadays. When Danny came on to the Svelte Sirens stream and talked about the newsletter, they talked about what they do to get the newsletter together. So a little bit more information might be in that stream. Yeah. So linked to that. Yeah. I think, I think that site showcase and library announcements might be the right places because the original showcase channel was split into. Yeah. I think either of those two places or what. Yep. All right. Yeah. So what is new in Svelte anyway? SvelteKit's out. There's nothing new to talk about? No, I'm kidding. Yeah, we're done. No more features, no more bug fixes. No, I think I haven't been paying all that much attention to the new releases of SvelteKit. I think they've pushed a bunch of fixes and stuff, but nothing major. Do you have any inside info, Anthony? I don't. There is one thing, but it is still inside info that's going on, which will be pretty good, I think pretty exciting. But yeah, I don't think we're ready to announce it all just yet, but it will come out in the wash. All right. As a side note, did y'all see that Astro 2.0 was released? Yes. Like they just released one not that long ago. I mean, the thing is, it makes sense, I suppose if you're going to have some breaking changes, doing a new major. We were very sort of afraid of doing that because it seems too quick. But I don't think, you know, I think it's a good thing to do that. I think it's been responded well from the community because the changes were good, I guess. I mean, the alternative is I think it was Nux that was waiting. I think they waited a long time to get to between their majors. and that's, you know, again, it something you do if you want to make sure that major encompasses everything you want to do but it it difficult I think you damned if you do you damned if you don Right I think the the I feel like the main problem there was they wanted to upgrade to view three, right? Yes. You end up with a, with a chain of things and, and that's it. Like at that point, maybe you go, well, you know what, let's do this change and then we'll have another major for the, for the view upgrade because you just end up sitting there sort of stalling. Has there been anything on Svelte 4 progress or any Svelte-specific stuff? So there's a view to switch back to Svelte 4 now. There's a couple of big features which will go in there and make it definitely breaking. I think one of them is the dollar sign moving on the stores, so potentially to arrive at the end like RxJS. It just gives free interop. So rather than dollar prefix stores, it would be dollar suffix stores. this is information from way early days of svelte kit so i'm not sure whether this is concrete or not yet but it means that if by following the format of rxgs you get integration with that and other things that are similar just for free without any changes yeah there was a there was a thread on on the on the subreddit where people wrote in what they wanted in the in the new version of Svelte. Let's see if I can try to find it. Yeah, let's see here. No, I don't want Reddit premium. I know that was one of the things that we talked about in the live episode of the release of Svelte kit is just that the focus may start to slide back towards Svelte for a little while. So I was wondering if that had started. Yeah, okay, I found it. Yeah, so there are a bunch of stuff in here. Tia's support and template is high on people's list, which kind of makes sense, I guess. What else? Resumability, I guess that would be like a Svelte or SvelteKit thing. Resumability, that sounds like Nishko. There's a lot of optimizations like that that add a lot of complexity for very much a micro performance increase. and i think that those are going to be a hard sell um to to maintain this basically because i think that you know we we always have that trade between simplicity and and performance if you focus purely on performance you could definitely tweak it but you going to lose some DX You going to lose some of the stuff that we do that makes things felt simple. So yeah, all these things need to be considered, I think. Yeah. Yeah, there are a bunch of stuff in here. Mine was I want the compiler to look at more than just one component. That'd be cool to optimize a whole, thing. Yeah, exactly. Rather than just one component. I think it could make some pretty substantial saving third. Nope. Each component is compiled in isolation. But if you could import them all into one blob and then do it, you could probably do some cool stuff there. For sure. I don't know. I'll link the thread. It's a fun speculation thing. Yeah, what else? What else? The Apple Music thing. Yeah. Do you want to talk about that, Brittany? Your fame? Your famous person now? I mean, this tweet was just ridiculous, but someone talked about it in one of the channels in Discord, and I've hunted it down and went to the Apple Music site, And so we knew for a long time that Apple beta music was using Svelte and they finally brought it out into production. And the Apple music site now has Svelte. If you inspect it, you can see the Svelte hash classes in there. Someone else was saying they found Marco and then they found web components mixed in too. So it is definitely a mismatch of a lot of things. Marco was an interesting one for me. I'm like, so they're using eBay's framework mixed with Svelte, mixed with web components. Okay. Must be like a microphone. Whatever works for them, I guess. Yeah, but there are Svelte hash classes all over. It happened to be in the header and people were like, every time I see Svelte, it's in a navigation, but it's really all over the site that they have. It's not just in the navigation. Yeah, that's pretty cool. It's one more of those validations, I guess. Yeah. Companies using it. I think people are always asking. Navigation. There's a pretty reasonable place to first find Svelte when someone's migrating. We certainly have built the Chrome of our application first And if we migrating say from SvelteKit you find the SvelteKit headers appear on a Sapper site for a long time before the whole application is converted. Because it's a very easy thing to convert. At Granger, we did the header and the footer before anything else. It's just logical. It's logical in that I don't want to build things and put them inside a slower application or an application with a worse DX. I want to take my brand new, clean SvelteKit instance, and I want to add all my Chrome, my headers, navigation, whatever else, and then somehow just inject the old content into the base of it until I have time to convert it over. Yeah, we've done exactly that. The marketplace uses Sapper, but it has the SvelteKit headers in it, and the homepage is all SvelteKit. Nice. So when are you expecting to be done? the conversion yeah well which bit never so there's there's many many applications within bionc um dashboard will be yeah fair enough the last marketplace second um i mean the checkout's just a completely rewrite and that's that's awesome so um that includes the booking form so really there's only there's only two big separate apps left to go it's just that they are two big separate um yeah authentication will soon be in felt kit uh yeah there's there's there's an ever a never diminishing number of pages that are still separate doesn't sound too bad no it's not it's a gradual a gradual migration before we continue with the episode here's a word from our sponsor Vercel. Vercel is the platform for front-end developers, providing the speed and reliability innovators need to create at the moment of inspiration. Founded by the creators of Next.js, Vercel has zero configuration support for 35 plus front-end frameworks, including SvelteKit. We enable the world's largest brands like Under Armour, eBay, and Nintendo to iterate faster and create quality software. Try out Vercel today to experience the easiest way to use Svelte. I wanted to shout out this thing that a person called Stellan Haglund made, which is... Say that again. It's Stellan Haglund, it's a Swedish name.

 uh so i i found out that he's actually the creator of something called books bullen which is like a it's like a band that you put on your head and it's got a string and there's a ball oh yeah on the string and then you you box the ball oh my gosh it's pretty cool i had this very random thing that because i've i've seen those before but but it turns out that he like again i wish we had video so you could see Kevin airboxing. Yeah. Anyway, so he, he made this, uh, template in Swift and I'm pretty sure he made one in, in, I don't know what Android uses as a Kotlin or Kotlin too, I think. Yeah. I don't know, but, but he did a one for iOS and one for Android and And it basically lets you listen to route changes in SvelteKit. So you listen to route changes in SvelteKit, or rather you listen to the route changes in the Swift or the Android template thing, I guess. The native, like whatever. The native. Exactly, the native stuff. And it lets you push new views onto the screen and go back and customize that little bar that you usually have at the bottom of the screen in a lot of apps. So you get to customize the icon and the text and the colors and all that stuff. And it kind of looks like a native app because it loads so quickly. So every screen is a new web view, but since it's local, it loads very fast. And all you have to do in your SvelteKit app is basically return an app attribute with a configuration for your navigations, basically. So you define back, you go to this screen, forward, you go to this screen, whatever. The tweet in the show notes has a really nice graphic to showcase what we're talking about. Exactly, yeah. So that'll be in the show notes. And if you look at the Twitter video, it's very fluid, it's very fast. And it almost looks like it's a full-on native. Are those still animations that are coming? No. So those are done by the native Swift library whatever it called in iOS And then the page itself is the actual web view Okay Interesting Yeah. It's very cool. And he did release a repo somewhere as well that I'll link. Yeah, I think that's it. Pretty cool. I was jumping to the next section, and someone wrote Anthony by my unpopular opinion. Now I'm dying because Anthony's not going to say that. With that said, let's move on to unpopular opinions. So Anthony, what's your unpopular opinion? Can I ask a question first, actually? Sure. This is a Sweden question. Do the names of products in IKEA seem weird to you too? a bit yeah but they're they're usually they're usually places or or things swedish things or places it's what they name them yeah but or or like adjectives sometimes it's like they are words usually but sometimes they're just like weird yeah okay but mostly mostly you you you kind of get the the the connection kind of to to the actual thing Well, that's it, because, I mean, even in English, I think you get the connection. The word sounds a bit... The reason I ask that is because you just reminded me when you said box ball and, you know, box ball. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. Whereas breadbands bologet, which I can't pronounce, I'm not going to try. The what? The broadband provider, the breadbands bologet. That's what I had. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. Breadbands bologet. Yeah, that's what I said. So that one. It's literally like a broadband company. Oh, is that it? Yeah, yeah. Very literal. Yeah. So, yeah, controversial opinions. I see that I'm being trolled in the show notes, whereas my unpopular opinion is Fahrenheit is better than Celsius. It is not. That was my unpopular opinion. It was, it wasn't. And it's unpopular. And you also then disagreed with yourself, which is hilarious. because he's decided it wasn't. Well, I said that metric is usually better. I wish that we knew more metric measurements but when it comes to telling weather and you told me that Celsius that it was negative five there and I looked up what that conversion was and it was 23 And then I looked and it was 31 here. And it also said it was negative five Celsius. I was like, how do you tell what the temperature is outside? Well, there's two things here. One is that's a rounding problem. If you want the exact temperature. It's a rounding error. So Celsius has rounding years is that what you can round fahrenheit too right maybe it's 35.2 fahrenheit you know but but is 32 and 33 that different the reason well no but this is my point the reason that i rounded it is because it's not important because you can't tell the difference between minus five and minus four and minus six never mind 0.5 of a celsius or 0.2 of a celsius therefore i rounded it to something reasonable whereby but that's eight degrees i think i can tell a difference between 23 and 31 you're telling me that you can tell the difference between minus five and minus five celsius i.e minus 5.7 and minus 5.2 let's say because it's eight degrees in fahrenheit i think it's different we need to scientifically test it because i don't think we can i think you're wrong um and i think i think it's a more accurate depiction of what is going on outside like 60 is cool and pleasant at 60 to 70 is like cool and pleasant outside but i don't know what that is like 20 celsius do you do you look at the sky and and talk about the sky in hsla values well not a but hsl values or rgb values do you say oh you know what the sky the sky is kind of 128 77 34 you know it's irrelevant it's red or it's blue or it's white it's gray i i sure hope the sky is never well sunny or well at sunset it's kind of yeah it gets red it gets and it and it can go you know kind of purple sometimes it can go kind of purple but it's not like oh the Saturation is increased by 0.2. You know what? The hue. Look at the hue of the sky. It's 74 now. You know what? Imagine if you could actually, if that was actually how we talked about colors, though. Sure. Wouldn't that be much more specific than what we do now? Oh, it's Rebecca Purple. What the hell does that mean? Light golden red yellow And it named Rebecca The CSS color name of the color is what you have to call it is light golden red yellow exactly i mean but this is it this is this is now like my next week controversial opinion because we should use a commensurate level of specificity when describing is it fahrenheit more specific than celsius no but it's not a commensurate level it's not a suitable level it's it's nonsense right the only reasonable level is degrees celsius and just to top this off here, the reason that Celsius is better than Fahrenheit and as a whole metric is better than Imperial is because the boiling point of water is 100 degrees Celsius. The freezing point of water is zero degrees Celsius. Isn't that nice? Aren't those nice numbers? That is nice and real. It's just arbitrary. It is arbitrary. No, it's the opposite of arbitrary. It's exact. It's specific. Well, I mean, Kelvin is exact. Sure. But, you know, who uses Kelvin? I mean, just like, why did you pick water? Well, why is that the thing that we measure? Oh, yeah, it is just water. Because water is a very common thing to need to know that you want to boil or freeze, right? But do you need to know that you need to boil it to 100? Or do you just put on the stove? I don't know the boiling point in Fahrenheit. I know it's 200 and something, but freezing is 32, and we know that. Well, sure, but you know, you memorize these arbitrary numbers, and that's that's wonderful i might memorize some hsl values later just for fun but you know zero 100 are memorable like properly memorable i'm laughing so much i'm hurting but the other thing here right um it is a crap what you're saying just now you were you were making some absolute ridiculous point about oh no we don't put water on stoves and hope that it gets tight enough to boil right what we do is we have a kettle because we live in the uk which is 220 volts so it's actually 230 volts but whatever let's not get into specific numbers because it's ridiculous the point is double double the us's power output right and it's not because the us really runs at 220 but they power it they level it down whatever this is too specific again the kettle boils the water because it gets 100 exactly or slightly over and then it freezes but do you put the kettle to 100 do you do you put the kettle to 100 it's no exactly the kettle knows the kettle knows there's a hundred just knows and i bet there's a little chip in there right with with binary on it and i bet it's like zero zero

 whatever trevor you know i bet it's i bet it's got gpt binary exacting hello turn turn turn me up to this would confuse the crap out of me it's on our air fryer we have degrees our oven too like we have to turn it to a certain degree to cook different foods and like 360 is what we cook like fries on and if you switch that to celsius on me i would freak out yeah right yeah that's That's actually a problem. If you're looking for recipes in English over here, you get a lot of American recipes, of course. So you have to always convert from quarts or whatever. We use a lot of leaders. Leaders is metric. Leaders is metric. Yeah, we do use leaders. You just segued. Cups, probably. That's the biggest problem of all. That's enough. The word cup alone is enough to make me rant for another 17 hours about this, right? All the recipes I find online are in cups. And what is a cup? Oh, it's different depending on what's in it. A cup of flour is different to a cup of water. You know what I would like? They have converters. Because it's not the same thing. I don't. I just have a measuring cup. I would like an extension in Chrome that I could just click on to magically turn. Google does it. I stand in the kitchen and shout at Google. Yeah, shout at Google and say, what's a bloody cup of flour? What's a cup of like, I don't know, a cup of egg? How many eggs can you fit a cup? It depends. I have never seen an recipe a cup of egg. Neither have I, but it's an example and I bet you can find it. I bet you can find it. I bet a cup of egg is an interesting recipe. One cup of egg. Oh, that's two and a half eggs. What size of eggs is that? that's actually one cup of egg that sounds like a really nice like investigative journalism kind of like reminds me of the pudding one cup of you know one cup of egg or something i don't know the reason this is particularly particularly sensitive for me right is is one that my name spelt and ton and tonte which is weird um but but i don't know why that's i don't know why that's that's really strange but the other thing the other thing that the reason is problematic for me right it because in the uk we are so stuck in the past and yet somehow want to be part of europe and metric that we ended up in the middle somewhere We were saying before how if a measurement is less than a mile if a measurement is more than a mile, we measure it in miles. And if it's less than a mile, we measure it in metric. And we measure our weight in imperial, and we measure our height in imperial. But even though our height is less than a mile, that's for some reason imperial it's so it's your your cultural confusion oh absolutely yeah i mean it's a little bit here like we do use liters for some things but very rarely do we use metric for anything which is confusing when we go anywhere else right we use pints of beer and pints is a very memorable 568 milliliters right you know what my dad couldn't remember how much it It was. My dad couldn't remember how many milliliters are in a pint, which just surprised me, actually, because he's the king of all this bizarre metric. Well, not metric. He hates metric. He likes Imperial. But, you know, but it's annoying because we learn metric in schools. And yet the world, the country works on Imperial. And we've got this weird mishmash that changes at the drop of a half. Would you rather say 560 milliliters or a one pint? One pint? I would make it. I would do this, right? I would go, let's call the generic beer measurement in the UK. Let's call it half a liter like Europe does and have done with it. I don't care about 68 mils. Yeah. Yeah. Just round it down. Round it down. I will happily accept less beer. This is how important it is. You would accept less beer. I will have 68 mil less beer as long as we stop calling things pints and have them in metric. I would rather go for ABF. I do like standards. So that's why I said earlier that I do think metric is better because a standard across the world. And if we could globally come to a standard, it would be very nice. We do. It's called a metric system. But no one plays nicely with it. Exactly. Well, let's just ban Imperial. Let's just ban it. Just stop doing it. As the world is. I feel like we're going to short circuit all of us. My mind is going to melt. The next one is probably going to be just as... And then Antony got put on that one too, and I wrote it. Antony T.T. Why is my name changing? Antony T.T. They're trying to melt my brain. They really ruining it I already cold And it working It working I already ill Snake No I was wondering what you were talking about So this was a Twitter thing that I saw pop up this morning And is it Joph or Jeff? Jeff Rich? Jeff Rich. Jeff. Jeff. Posted, what are some anti-patterns in Svelte? And then someone said something about using camel case over snake case. And then Rich did his rich thing and went in and was like, this is why we use Snake Case and this is why it's better. Well, so, yeah, it just felt written in Snake Case because it's Rich's preference. And I like it now, actually. And the external camel case because that's a node standard, right? He posted a study that it was 20% more efficient in a study done on developers that used, they did using both. So some used CamelCase, some used SnakeCase previously, did a study, and it was 20% more efficient when reading. And I believe it is. That's why I kind of like it now. And it's the same with the tabs and spaces. It's accessible and all that kind of stuff to use tabs. the thing is and and i've been converted on a bunch of these issues but one thing that i am not converted on is the use of semicolons i'm not gonna i'm not gonna use them i think they make a mess of the code yes but i guarantee there'll be something i feel about typescript yeah well it makes the code unreadable yeah for sure but the most important question here is snake case how long is that line that underscore how many millimeters is it and you know can you express it in fifths of an inch or whatever you want to do i don't know oh my gosh how many millimeters it looks like you really can't let this this one go right nope i can't let it go because i'm so living in this world around me that everything's all mishmashed my name is god's him yeah fair enough fair enough the rest of the world can just like relax does that go into the show notes can you leave the I'll put a name like that in the show notes so everyone can appreciate it. And Tom Titi. Tom Titi. Everyone's just chilling in Europe with the metric system. I'm stuck here in Imperial Britain. That could be such a good meme. Stuck in Britain with the Imperial system That picture that has the crazy geometry stuff all around her head Yeah Do that one Yes I mean there plenty of that Just a picture of Jacob Rees and Mog would be a good one. Yeah. The what? Victorians. What? Victorians. Anyway. Now he's just mumbling. They honestly want to get back to Victorian Britain. They feel like it was better or some nonsense like that. Oh, I see, I see. Gotcha, gotcha, gotcha. Yeah. Right. All right. I think that's it for our unpopular opinions. Unless you guys have more. I have nothing more to say. Yeah. Okay. Let's do picks then. I can go first because I didn't have an unpopular opinion. So I wanted to pick a new TV show from HBO Max based on a TV. Sorry, not a TV. a game sorry a game so I thought like a game that you play on the TV so it just messed my mind up it's called The Last of Us and it's about some people that are trying to survive a zombie apocalypse thing it's a very very good game so I have very high hopes for the TV show and so far it's actually very good I think HBO Max needs to come out with something that's going to compete because they've kind of fell off a little bit. I feel like since Game of Thrones went off and then Westworld's last season was not great. As it's canceled as well, right? Westworld. Yeah, yeah. No, I think this is very good. Like both of the episodes have got a 9.4 out of 10 on IMDb. So that's my pick. I'll go next because there was silence. so my throat hurts now i think my cult my cold and combination of ranting is not a great combo so my pick is actually the metric system no it's not i'm joking so what it is is called crumb crumb sim so crumb sim.com and it's a way of building visually circuits so you could mock up things that you might do on a on a breadboard which is essentially like a quick prototyping board for electronic circuits. And I understand from this that you can even kind of run your circuits like you would debug code in software and it will make the components operate.

 see what voltages come out and line drops and all those kind of cool stuff so i build now and then i build things on bedboards i mostly fail um my co-hosts can see that my i tried to start working on my desk adjustment system and now it's just this mess on the desk because i gave up but essentially i'm trying to build things using circuits and i find as a software engineer very frustrating that you can't just you have to actually build it to test it rather than knocking something quick up and see if it works and breadboards help and get a lot of the way but um having this as virtual simulator is even better than that so uh yeah so let's we play around a bit and hopefully no fires at my desk which is also happening um trying to fix that up and down um i accidentally shorted it out and it's 36 volts and there was a lot of smoke but online not such a problem so crumb sim hopefully will solve some of that there's also another one uh i can't remember the name of it for raspberry pies um if you've got raspberry pies at home uh it's like a it's like a simulator for for things for those they're all sold out i can't find them for a lot of money wow for a long time for years i've got a drawer full of them is it the chip shortage thing i don't know i think it's just it's just demand it's just demand you know the moment they make some and ship them people buy them wow and there's also another one a simulator for arduino as well so similar sort of thing you can knock things together and online and do it virtually and it's just like testing code maybe this means you can unit test them who knows yeah yeah cool uh my pick i just kind of threw one i know i done it on other podcasts i don think i done it on here is Arc browser So with the new job I got my MacBook back and I can finally use Arc again And I was converted when I had my previous Mac. But it does frustrate me a little bit that it is Mac only. I do not like things that are specific to Apple. It's like, oh, that's the only people that can use it. They are making a Windows version. So hopefully it will come out eventually. but they have nailed everything about the experience of browsing, like from grouping tabs, pin tabs, and then having spaces that you can separate accounts and stuff if you want. And having that visual experience of everything just kind of going away and taking up the entire screen for the page that you're on is really nice. Yeah, I tried it out. I think we talked about it a couple of episodes ago, ARC in general, I think. And I tried it out and I did like it a lot. But then it kind of irks me that you have to log in. Oh, I didn't even notice that. Why do you need to? Yeah, so you have to have an account. Oh, I think it's to kind of gatekeep a little bit people using it because it's free. Yeah, yeah. But maybe in the future if they open it up to everyone, then I'd probably try to do it. I don't know how they would monetize it, which is kind of a problem for that company too. But we'll see how that goes. Maybe you're right. Maybe we did talk about it and I shouldn't have picked it. No, it's a nice pick. Might as well pick it again. I don't think you picked it, though. When Linux version? I'm not sure. Never. Yeah, I don't know. I feel like nothing ever goes to Linux All right Unless it starts on Linux Yeah Haven you converted from Linux No God no I have a Mac M1 but I run Linux on it. Why would I go from better to worse? Oh, yeah. You talked about that at some point, I think, yeah. I use the Mac on it sometimes because certain things like Zoom were not working for me because there wasn't video drivers before on the Linux version. but it's just a horrible operating system. Such a horrible, horrible experience to use. The Mac OS? Yeah, it's horrendous. I think Windows is better, honestly. I don't consider Windows to be an operating system. I think we have an unpopular opinion for the future here. We're doing another. Do you dual boot Linux and Mac? Well, you have to because you can't remove Mac off it yet, but I basically boot to Linux every time, yeah. and i'll probably replace my desktop eventually with uh an m2 or something and just like a mac studio or something yeah mac studio or i mean to be honest like mac mini why get a mac computer then why not get a hardware is good but the because the hardware is better it's not because arm is by far the superior yeah and and there are like there are arm based um machines that you know run linux or windows whatever windows doesn't run on arm properly um it's pretty high they had them longer than apple but they i don't think they make current uh processors that have this yeah they still do so i mean server server processes are massive so basically the m series that apple silicon is just um and arm is a company that formed in 1982 i think or something in the uk and actually i grew up a school boy and everything else just using arm based computers and they were they were fantastic they were really good and so when i got my first pc uh running windows 3.1 i switched to x86 and i didn't really know at the time, but I was down a path of disappointment. And so when I heard that Apple had made their ARM processors suitable for desktop processing, then, you know, proper, like, desktop processing, I was like, this is amazing. The Raspberry Pi is at ARM based as well. Oh, cool. I didn't know that. History. History. It's long and interesting. All right. I think that's our picks, our popular and unpopular opinions, our topics. Yeah. Anything else before Will we sign off? No, I think that's it. Getting back on track in 2023. Yeah, let's get started. Whoop, whoop. Oh, one thing. I'm looking for venues in Lisbon for Selt Summit in the fall. Almost forgot it. I know. And your dates, your tentative dates, is my birthday. So I'm very excited. Yeah, October 20th is my birthday. Oh, no. You spoiled the date now. Oh. You said tentative, so. Yeah, that is true. All right. Yeah, that's us. Thanks for listening, and we'll talk to you next week. Bye. Bye. Hey, it's Kavir. If you like the show, please drop a review on your favorite podcast player. It would help out a lot. Thanks.