 Hey friends, hope you're doing well. Today we're going to talk about setting up Tailwind CSS with SwellKit. I assume you already know what Tailwind CSS is, but I'm going to spend a minute explaining it and if you already know about Tailwind and are just interested in the setup, you can skip this part. But basically, Tailwind is a utility-first CSS framework. Tailwind CSS isn't a UI component framework because it just gives you some utilities, so one utility in Tailwind corresponds to a single line of CSS. For example, in Tailwind, font-bold is equal to, you would have guessed in CSS, font-bold 700 or whatever. But yeah, let's get this out of the way and let's set up Tailwind with SvelteKit. Let's set up Tailwind CSS. You can create a new SvelteKit project or add Tailwind to an existing project. And as always, you can find the example repository on GitHub. So I'm going to open a terminal inside an empty project and I'm going to use pnpm, but you can use whatever you want. So I'm going to say pnpm create Svelte and then we're going to go through the installer. I'm going to leave it blank. Skeleton project, so it's just empty. TypeScript, of course. Let's add ESLint. And this one is important. So you want to add Prettier for the next step we're going to go through. But if you're using an existing project and you don't have Prettier for whatever reason, I have some instructions in the post where you can set up Prettier and it's basically straightforward to just installing the package and that's it. So we can say yes. And then we can also add Playwright, but I'm not going to do it right now. And then we need to install the packages. So I'm going to say PNPMI. Awesome. install some dependencies that tailwind requires so we can say pmpmi development dependencies and we can say tailwind css and then we need post css and auto prefixer so we can also give it a second for this to install and now we can create the tailwind config so we can say pnpx tailwind css that's going to invoke the tailwind css cli and it's going to run this init script tailwind config.cjs which is going to get created at the root of our project and let's close this and on the side we're going to see it created the file and it also created a post css config which you don't have to touch so you can ignore it for now and now let's just give it a file so it knows where the classes for tailwind are so we can just replace this content you can just copy paste this i got this from the tailwind documentation so really nothing special yeah let's just save this file And now we need to add the Tailwind Directives to our CSS. So again, you can go here, you can copy this over, and I'm going to close this file. And inside the project I have source And let me just see in routes there nothing So I can just create app CSS at the root or you can do whatever you want And now we just need to include this file in the layout because it's how we include a global CSS file in SvelteKit. In routes, we can create layout, Svelte, and we can just create a script tag. We can import the styles, app CSS, and don't forget to pass it a slot we can save it and you're done so let's see if it works so in routes here's the page let me just create h1 again i can say heading and let me just start the development server pnpm run dev and this should be available let me just close this so you can go to localhost 5173 and right now there should be nothing so we already know tailwind is working because tailwind does unstyled by default for everything so for example we can go to app html in our project and on the body tag we can say class and since i have the tailwind extension i'm going to get recommendations but we can say bg gray 900 and for the text i want it to be white and this is going to update which is awesome so we can close this and let's just add some styles here So we can say class, we can just say hey, display grid 100 vertical, place content center, text this size, let me just save it, and now it should work. Awesome, we got Tailwind working. This is awesome, but let's take our Tailwind experience to the next level by enabling automatic class sorting with Prettier. First make sure you have the Prettier extension installed, and it's the default formatter in a VS Code setting. So if I press Ctrl X in my editor, I can go and see my extensions. And here we should see the Tailwind one. I have Tailwind IntelliSense, but I also have another one which is prettier. Here it is, yeah. So make sure you have that. And then let me just close that. If you press Ctrl P and you do the pointy boy, start typing settings, you can go to your settings.json. And I prefer using JSON over the UI because it creates a portable file, even if you have automatic sync in vs code these days but yeah i always prefer this so i can just open that configuration file let me just close this and i'm going to find edit or format and save as you can see i have format and save enable true so when you press save in your file is going to pretty format everything and then the default format there is going to be this and of course i using the svelte extension so the default formatter for that is going to be the Svelte one And you can leave this and you don have to change anything I also have instructions in the post if you're doing this for an already existing project, how you can add Prettier if you're curious. But now let's get to installing the Prettier plugin for Tailwind CSS. So let me just close this. And now I can open the terminal. Control-C to stop the development server. And now we can just install the plugin. we can say pnpmid PrettierPluginTailwindCSS, install this. And while this is installed, let me explain that because SvelteKit uses PrettierPluginSvelte, so if you go to package.json PrettierPluginSvelte, basically the TailwindCSS plugin does something weird, so it conflicts with this plugin because it uses some third-party APIs that aren't documented or whatever, it's not important. But basically, we need to remove the Svelte PrettierPlugin. But thankfully the Prettier plugin Tailwind CSS includes the plugin for you so everything should work as before. So now we just need to uninstall it. And in my case this is pnpm remove so we can say Prettier plugin svelte. And now we also need to remove the plugins from the Prettier config. This is a mistake I've done earlier. Let me just close this. And I'm going to close back a JSON. So here is your Prettier RC. You just have to remove this plugins line because it's going to crash it. and basically it's just going to pick up the Tailwind CSS plugin automatically for you. So you just need to remove this line. And then if you save it, everything should work fine. And I also mentioned in the post that you don't have to change your formatter. And let's just see if this works. So if I go here, I'm going to close this. Control P and let me open our homepage so I can do this. And if something is not working, you might need to restart your editor. And I'm curious if this is going to work. So let's see. Moment of truth. and awesome it works let me share some useful tailwind css tips that are going to improve the quality of life for using tailwind dramatically if you need a component library for tailwind there's tailwind UI but it's paid and if you're looking for a free one you can use daisy UI so you can go to daisy UI and it's the most popular free and open source tailwind css component library so if that's something you're interested in the components are gorgeous and it's awesome so give it a try but yeah let's go back to our list let's talk about extensions so if I press ctrl x again you you can see I have the Tailwind CSS IntelliSense extension, and that's going to give you auto-completion in your editor so you don have to look up the documentation constantly which is awesome So you can go straight ahead and you can install it if you want in VS Code Yeah this is basically it And you get this awesome auto completions which would otherwise be a nightmare to remember. But yeah, that's the thing with Tailwind, you really don't have to remember. Tailwind is in itself very intuitive to you, so you're going to always know what you have to find. But if that's not the case, let me just close this, you can use the Tailwind CSS Cheat Sheet to get a glance of what you need right now. So you can find the options you need. You can just have this open on your second monitor or whatever, and you can look at the values. And this paired with the official Tailwind CSS extension is really powerful. And also I want to mention that you shouldn't forget that you can place your long class names inside the variable, because this is the point that people have against Tailwind. It's like, oh, the classes are so long. And Tailwind has the apply directive, of course, where you can extract your styles, but it's actually actively discouraged by the creator of Tailwind in this tweet. Confession, the apply feature in Tailwind basically only exists to trick people who are put off by long list of classes into trying the framework. So the creator himself is saying that you should almost never use it and reuse your HTML instead. So you can chuck it in a variable and that's basically it. And really, Tailwind doesn't really become a problem. Like it looks like an item where you inspect a site, but you're often dealing with smaller components, right? And it's really not that bad inside those components. It's just when it's all put together, of course it's a soup of class names, right? But yeah, if I go back, another tip I have for you is enabling WordWrap in your editor. So if I go back to this example, this is kind of like hard, right? When you're like working with this long class name, so you can press Ctrl Z and you're going to have WordWrap and it's going to make working with Tailwind CSS much more pleasant. And another thing I want to mention is the Headwind extension. If for whatever reason, this automatic sorting of classes in Tailwind doesn't work for you, In the past, I remember using this extension and it's really awesome. So you can give it a try if the other methods don't work for you. Alright, so that's it. Despite the drama around it, Tailwind CSS is a great way for moving quick without distraction and it feels great because of it, but it doesn't compensate for not understanding CSS because a Tailwind class is just a line of regular CSS. And Tailwind CSS is not a UI component framework. And it's also not all or nothing. If you decide at a later point in your project that you don't want to use Tailwind anymore, That's perfectly fine because it's a great prototyping tool and you can replace it with regular CSS using something like OpenProps if you want. Alright so that's going to be it from me, thank you for watching and catch you in the next one.