 welcome to spelt radio hey another podcast with an amazing intro yes yes definitely just played Yeah, of course. Of course. We always play the music before we start recording, right? Yeah. Yes. So what have you guys been up to lately? Sean, what are you? Yeah, I'll talk a bit. I've been still trying to crank out one blog post a week, still trying to work on my site. Not very successful, though. But I think that the biggest change for me has been I've been pitching in a bit more on the open source maintenance side. So helping Ben McCann bug bash some Svelte issues, just because I noticed the issue count is just growing monotonically over time. And I think we need some help in just triaging and keeping down the issues. And it's a good sign of a... It's something that people evaluate when they evaluate open source projects. And then also helping to work on the Svelte Society website, which we're creating in SvelteKit. Yeah. Yeah. Nice. Anthony? What have I been up to? I mean, it's just, you know, it's just sort of the endless English summer where everyone starts using the site and we're not ready. So it's just sort of dealing with that really. That sounds nice. Well, you know, everyone else wants a feature and everybody new wants a different feature. So it's sort of a big game of catch-up. You know summer comes at the same time every year. It does. Yeah, well, you know, we're about three summers late because of COVID. so uh so you know it's one of those things that uh it's we're in kind of shock mode still because sales have gone from like you know nothing for three years to hundreds you know thousands yeah that's a good problem to have though it is it's a good problem to have i definitely appreciate the problem it's just uh i wouldn't say it was a surprise it's just it's just hard work i just fancy a day off you know because it is shining the sun shining outside and i'm not getting one yeah speaking of time off i just went on vacation this week oh it's been nice the weather is is very nice for for stockholm we been having like 20 25 degrees and sun all day So I been enjoying that And yeah And we also have a guest with us today. Yes. Oh, should I? Yeah, go for it. I feel like I need intro music. So today we have Nick Ries on. I don't actually know a ton about his prior work, but I came across him when he started putting out stuff on ElderJS. And Elder Guide was the site I was working on that necessitated a super large static site generator. And this is something that I personally have been working on for a while, just because I noticed that Sapper had some bottlenecks. I noticed that my own attempts weren't really scaling very well. And so when Elder came along and it actually was designed from the ground up to work on this, plus it was the first framework to implement the island's partial hydration model that Jason Miller was very keen on focusing, I was very sold on this and built my own site right now is in ElderJS. So elderguide.com uses data to help families make informed decisions around senior care. And it's very SEO optimized. And that's something that we'll probably have to get into just because we don't necessarily, as developers, know a ton about SEO because we're not that tied to the business side. But Nick identifies as both an entrepreneur, marketer, and a developer. So we'll get that holistic definition. Nick, is there any other parts of your background that you typically introduce yourself with? I think you did a great job on it. I mean, my background is basically I've built several companies from nothing to an exit and have generally played that CEO role of it, but started out as front end developer on all of them. And so that's kind of how I came into Svelte. And I have acquired different assets and basically SEO assets and turned them around. I've done that both in my own personal portfolio and then for larger companies. And so, yeah, it's interesting. I kind of understand the business side of things, but I also have in the past three years, I've only been like really seriously writing any JavaScript for about three years. Really focus on building things myself and kind of filling in my own gaps around like SQL and things that I didn't know. And so, yeah, I decided to, during the pandemic, build something for senior living facilities with a friend that's an attorney. We just saw a need in the space and we tried to build it in Sapper and several other frameworks and it was just too slow at the time. And so out of necessity grew ElderJS So it been fun It been my first open source anything And it been a it been an adventure Pretty successful I would say Yeah Yeah I I I remember when you first uh released ElderJS, but you were quite hesitant about actually releasing it as a framework, right? Yeah. What pushed you over the, over the edge? Well, really you and Sean cheerleading me on to do it. Oh, that's good. It's your guys's fault. I often, I have to joke that I got in over my head because I, you know, like, I don't know. I don't really identify as a developer until somewhat recently. And like, I still don't know Git that well. And I still don't, I've never maintained an open source project myself. Everything I know I've taught myself. And so it's, I think I was, I was excited for the learning curve. And that's the reason I got into it is because I like steep learning curves. And so it was a lot of fun. It was a lot of work, but I'm really proud of where it's gone, essentially. So it's been fun. I'm excited to keep developing it. I think in the past couple of weeks, I've pushed out new plugins and I really just like the framework that I've built and kind of fallen in love with it again. And it's fun. So you've been developing JavaScript for three years. You've built a framework that's just like exceptional. And now you're tackling hydration. Okay, well done. it. Thanks. Yeah, it's an interesting journey. My first project was a high-frequency trading cryptocurrency bot. It was the first 80 JavaScript that I wrote, and it was moving millions of dollars a day on Binance. And so I kind of jump in, kind of head first into things. We were doing trades in like four milliseconds. So it was a lot of fun. And that's where I actually cut my teeth on JavaScript. And so I learned low latency stuff. And I don't know, I like Steve Learning curves. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, so people are generally pretty surprised when they, uh, when they go to the elder JS documentation site. Well, have you, have you had any, uh, any fun, uh, like reactions to it? Yeah, there's, there's been, I think that my favorite is that people start to realize that the documentation site that they're on is actually like, it's kind of like a meta thing. Like you realize that the site I'm on was built by this tool that I'm reading about. And I like that a lot. The main reason I did that was mainly as an SEO experiment. From an SEO perspective like what SEOs care about is inbound links And something that I think most SEOs value is relevant inbound links And obviously cutting edge JavaScript framework links are not really relevant to senior living facilities So this is kind of testing my own hypothesis that inbound links are good, kind of generally, regardless of how relevant they are, as long as you also have other relevant links. And so, yeah, it's more of an SEO experiment than anything. And the docs had to live someplace. So it made sense to at least get some links to guy yeah that's great it's always fun to see like on on reddit when people find the documentation they're like what what what is this well it also used to feature the the logo a bit more and the logo is very special it's not the typical javascript framework logo uh it's a picture of a guy can you tell us more about this the story behind this logo yeah so my my wife actually drew the logo she it's it's modeled after uh i think it's aristocrats and her favorite kind of like pseudo grandfather um like this father figure that was grandfather figure that was in her life um so she drew it after senior sanchez in her life she's she's from spain and this this is essentially him and so it's a tribute to him oh that's i like it i like it it does it does stand out yeah definitely uh okay how about we describe like for people who are new to elder js like the the core opinions that elder has um yeah so we at this point we know it's a competitor to zapper it's a static site generator what and i think it's built for like i when i'll tell you i'll tell you when i came across elder js and it's and the tagline was it's an seo first framework i'm like isn't seo the thing that you tag on after you've done everything else you know what what's what makes a framework seo first i think it's a good question because really you're right. SEO is what comes after building. But what you find when you deal with different static site generators is that often when you want to do things that are important SEO wise, you kind of have to do backflips because they go against common opinions. And so I wanted to make sure that the framework was flexible enough to never really stand in your way if you wanted to do things SEO wise, and that would always have good defaults for you. Like particularly bad is Gatsby. Gatsby is just really bad at it. And I've been burned with Gatsby. And that was part of the the genesis of ElderJS is that I wanted to make sure all the opinions were kind of right from the beginning. And so like doing things- Can you describe what you mean by burned? Gatsby, so this was 2017, 2018 timeframe. I had acquired a site for like $500,000

 I can't really talk about the space, but we were going to turn it around. And in like 80 days, we rebuilt the site on Gatsby. It was on WordPress. The site was making roughly 200 grand a year when we acquired it. And it ended up, you know, like after the redesign and everything, it was up, you know, on par to make about a million dollars a year. And so it was an all-around success. And then as the build started going out, Gatsby kept on having different bugs. So like our permalinks all changed. like all sorts of like things started being introduced that were completely outside of our control and like build times are terrible but really more importantly like gatsby kept on shooting us in the foot and so we regretted it every step of the way and i i just never wanted to be tied to something like that where you know things such as as important as like the canonical tags or your permalinks could suddenly have undefined in them there should be warnings there yeah definitely and like breadcrumbs breadcrumbs you have to do backflips and gatsby to do and it's uh it's really tough i want to release a plugin for elder js that makes breadcrumbs a lot easier sitemaps was was difficult i just want all these things to kind of live in a framework to offer all of them as an optional feature and so i i recently recently also shipped a seo check plugin for elder js which basically has like 50 kind of opinionated seo checks that it runs on your site that you can do after build to make sure that you're kind of following best practices um yeah i mean the other thing the other thing i really enjoy about elder is you also really focused on this um partial hydration thing which is that by default most of the site is just html and you choose which parts to hydrate into javascript and i think that's something that kev might have helped you with I'm not sure. I'm not sure the history of this. I think I just nudged him in the right direction. Yeah, he came up with the initial idea for how to implement it. This should be possible, right? And initially, before releasing ElderJS, everything was written in essentially a small, hand-rolled version of lit HTML. And then you had an ability to hydrate Svelte components individually. And Kevin was like, hey, maybe you can actually do all of it in Svelte. And that really led me down, like, how do I, how would I do that? And it ended up being pretty doable. I mean, there's some ugly regex that needs to happen, pre-processing, but it works out really well. So today ElderJS ships zero JavaScript if the page doesn need it And if it does need it it will currently the stable version of ElderJS will use on like document on load in order to mount the components. Well, it starts at IntersectionObserver. So let me back up a little bit. Basically, the JavaScript from a component won't be executed until it scrolls into the view. While that works, in the next version of ElderJS, we're going to be using request idle callback, which is a new browser, not browser, it's supported by most browsers now, but it's a feature that you can request when the browser is not idle to do some processing. So it's pretty useful. And the goal is to basically, you know, your web vital scores, I want to make sure that ElderJS makes it easy to have hundreds on all that. A question, I guess, more around regular SEO. At the point where you're creating a new site and you're sort of adding seo how long before you start to see results or benefits from that seo because i've been doing seo on various sites for a long time and i feel like it's very hard for me to judge whether i'm doing something right or wrong because something like a year to get a result it's very hard for me to know what you know you can't expect and adapt for easily that is 100 accurate so on a new site unless you're like buying buying an existing domain that's the reason why i like acquiring existing sites and turning them around is because they already have they're out of the sandbox, so to speak. Like I think Google puts you in this, Hey, go play in the sandbox on your own. I don't trust you for about a year. And then you start seeing results. And then you might see on average, like four to 10% compound annual weekly growth or compound weekly growth, not annual growth. If you're doing well, and that's, that's a pretty good metric to track as your compound growth, because like, like if you're running a SAS business, you can track, track your trajectory. So it's, uh, I'm more interested in the trajectory of a site and then the results immediately and in general i don't run that many seo experience experiments until the site has quite a bit of volume and so when when you do that you should do it at the edge but that's a whole nother topic um to kind of get into but yeah in general about a year is about right wow that's a long time yeah that's exactly it's kind of hard to get into it's good to be in it hard to get into it yeah do you have to like keep up on up to date on like i don't know google algorithm changes and stuff like that. Because I feel like it's a bit of mumbo jumbo because they try to hide it from you. And then everyone has very strongly held beliefs on how Google works and there not much data behind it apart from anecdotes Isn this like how do you make a living from this It kind of by design right And if luck wasn involved if I said luck wasn't involved, I'd 100% be lying. But I've been doing, like SEO has paid the bills since I've had bills to pay. So pretty much since 2006, I've been doing SEO. So I've survived the great purge of 2012 and 2014, where everyone that was doing SEO got blown out. And then bigger companies kind of entered in. Yeah. And in general, like, can I cuss on this? Yeah. Go for it. Okay. So in general, I think SEO is do cool shit and tell people about it. Like that's kind of my, my philosophy is do cool shit and tell people about it. Cause like in general, it's just, it's just marketing. And I think SEO, uh, SEOs in general like to make things sound a lot more complicated cause that's how they get their fees. Uh, but if you're, if you're following, like, yes, there's a lot of anecdotes and there's a lot of like crowd wisdom of the crowd, so to speak, but a lot of it works. And so it's, it's kind of sticking with that. And so I think Google has a key problem of, you know, back when the web was early links worked as a way of essentially curation, right? So I own a little site. I was passionate hobbyist and I linked to things and curated the web for them. Now Google has a problem that there's essentially no real signals of curation anymore. And until they solve the curation problem or someone solves a curation problem and built another search engine, we're going to have like kind of this, this weird SEO world that we live in. Um, because Google can't really move away from links, but everyone kind of acts like, Hey, I'm not going to link to you unless there's something in it for me. Cause links are understood to be valuable now. Tricky. It's a fun world. So just to go back to what you do, then you take something that already has a presence. It's just not optimized, I guess. and then you optimize it? That's one way. Specifically, what my track record has been really good at is buying sites, turning them around, and then renegotiating the deals with all the partners. Ah, okay. That's what I did. So before working on ElderGuide, I built a company called Broadband Now, and we were the largest, basically, lead generator for all the major ISPs in the United States. I think we generated like 2 million minutes of talk time a month to call centers on a bad month. Maybe it was a good month. In some months we were breaking 10,000 units a month, which is just a crazy amount in the space. And yeah it was it was a ton of fun Um but my business partner was kind of done and we had an opportunity to exit So we took it And in between then is when I acquired several different sites and turned them around And I find that you know if you have good relationships with your partners they willing to do things that they do with you that they won do with other people So it's kind of it's kind of bring the business side of it as well. And like negotiation and all that other stuff. I'm a weird developer. Sorry. I've got a weird background. No, it's interesting. Yeah, absolutely. I think the more people, the more developers learn about how their skills can be applied to make serious money, I think the more people understand what parts of technology is important and what part is just us trying to nerd out. Yeah, bike shed over stuff that doesn't actually matter. Yeah, I mean, one thing I learned about these, I pay vague attention to this industry of people who buy and turn around sites. One thing that people worry about, by the way, for example, is I'll build a site and it's all links that I control. And then I'll list it for sale and I'll sell it to you. And then those inbound links that I control, I'll just turn it away to the next site that I can flip to the next unsuspecting buyer. So some amount of traffic is very hard to verify as to whether or not it's legit. It's a very poke and daggers industry. But I think if you have some serious skill, you can turn a $500,000 investment into something that makes a million dollars a year. And that's pretty decent. I'd say that more than decent. The really interesting thing is when you get farther into the business side of things, there's all this private equity that's rolling up the SEO space. Because they realize that essentially the landscape, there's only 10 results and it's a zero-sum game. And so as long as you can hire a team to manage an asset for you, you can basically buy these sites on a 3 to 5 to 7x multiple. And they're going to pay off dividends for quite some time. Because SEO is relatively stable if you're not doing things too shady. Like you're running your own PBNs, like you were private blog networks. Sorry about that. Like you're talking about Sean. Sorry, lingo. And it's relatively stable. And so private equity is rather interesting because they'll like, you know, if you have a track record, they'll throw money at you to go do that again. And I, I've essentially decided to stop being a bounty hunter and focus on things that can actually make a difference in the world because that's the reason I built broadband now and money's good, but having an impact on the world and leaving a better place matters more to me at this phase of life. And yeah, it's.

 Eventually, I could retire, but I drive my wife crazy, and I'm a restless person. I need to be learning things. Literally, I dive into stuff that I have no clue how to handle because I need problems to solve. My brain goes crazy if it doesn't have it. And so that's the reason I like JavaScript is because there's kind of the whole community. There's endless problems to solve. Yeah, endless problems. You found the right community for that, for sure. And then when the problems run out, you just invent a new framework, and then there are... infinite new problems yeah well it wasn't i want to ask about i mean since uh if we if you don't mind one more digression and we'll go back to tech i promise but one more digression on like what have you learned about the elder care industry that people might not know so somewhere around 15 of people in nursing homes in the united states have pressure ulcers which is basically they're not being moved enough um so they're not getting adequate care and they're like sometimes sitting in their own feces and stuff like that. And what's happening is there's a couple of companies and I will name them, um, red ventures and caring, uh, dot com that essentially own the marketplace. And I have a history with red ventures. We're not the best of friends. They ended up, uh, suing my last company under a trademark or not trademark patent infringement, which we were not infringing on. And essentially they're the thousand pound gorilla in the lead generation space. And the FTC, the Federal Trade Commission in the United States forced them to spin off caring.com out of their portfolio when they acquired Bankrate. And so basically, they're just this massive billion dollar company that kind of steps on everyone. And so they control the lead generation prices for nursing homes. And essentially, they have a fleet of people that are advisors, in air quotes, that will help your family make decisions on senior care facilities. Well, The problem is, is those advisors only recommend places they get paid for. I have a problem with that. The fact that there's roughly a $4,000 payout to Red Ventures for placing someone into a facility when these facilities don't have enough money to care for their patients, that's a problem for me. I really don't like that. And so the reason why I entered the senior care space is because I wanted to turn that around. And today I don't see a very good revenue model that wouldn't be also essentially preying on consumers again. So I going to kind of wait and hold and let the site build some SEO traffic until we get leveraged so we can negotiate our own Because otherwise I would have to work with Red Ventures or Caring and it just not what I interested in Yeah So you got a new project then right Yeah. You just released, right? Well, find energy. So what's that? Findenergy.com. It was released yesterday. Came out of basically, so I guess roughly in November, I posted in the Svelte community looking to hire someone. And I found someone and he's fantastic. He's an American that lives in Russia. And so I was like, I need someone that knows SQL, because I'm not that great at SQL and someone that we're going to deal with a lot of data. And I have another partner in this as well. And I was like, let's see if we can launch something to kind of change the energy space. Because right now there's essentially no place where you can go find all the power companies in the United States and where their plants are, or whether they're releasing toxic chemicals when they produce energy or how much they're polluting. So a good example is OUC in Orlando, Orlando Utility Commission. They spend an incredible amount of money advertising how green they are, but really it's like a very small segment of their overall energy profile. And so we're basically taking a huge amount of government data and making it transparent. Our revenue model is going to be in the solar space because I think the solar industry is about to boom in the next three to five years. And I also think the electric vehicle space, there needs to be a thought leader there that's kind of helping you make decisions around which electric vehicles. And so we're kind of heading that direction. But the first thing we wanted to do was, you know, start with, let's crunch all this data and show what the actual energy impact is and environmental impact of all these facilities and what you as a consumer essentially are polluting by using your energy. Because at the end of the day, when you really break it down, energy, like having a light on in your office is essentially a fire burning a long ways away from your house. And it's as like in our modern society, it's very easy to be disconnected from that reality. So speaking of like government data and stuff like that, like, do you have any numbers? Like how much data are we talking about? So broadband now was also on government data. We were dealing with like a billion rows on elder guide. We're dealing with, I think 2.5 billion data points and on find energy. I know we're over a billion data points. Um, so broadband house rows were super large So we talking like I mean if I had to estimate it was probably like 20 billion data points Um so that a much larger data set But the EIA data is purposely opaque And all the energy space data is very opaque on purpose And it's very hard to essentially calculate. And they make it just incredibly difficult to understand. And you call the government agencies and you're like, hey, how did you arrive at this data point? Because it doesn't make sense. Your math doesn't make sense. Explain it to us. And they can't explain it. And so it's, they've been helpful, but it's, you know, the energy space is kind of like purposely opaque. Yeah. So what drives Find Energy is ElderJS, right? Yep. ElderJS and actually the next version, it's kind of where I'm testing all the new ideas. So one of the things that on data heavy sites, like the ones that I build, essentially when you're hydrating, let me talk a little bit about hydration. How hydration works is we render something on the server and that gives us static HTML. So we push that to the client and that's the HTML that shows up on the page. But in order to hydrate something, you also have to mount a component on that HTML that was pushed to the page. And you have to add all the props, all the properties that the component was rendered with. Well, when you're dealing with huge amounts of data, like, you know, if you go to the Texas page on find energy, there's just massive amount of power plants and a massive amount of providers. and it's just you find all of your keys and values start repeating and so what i did on on elder guide is i i wrote a essentially a small wrapper that would allow me to convert values to an array and then i would use a reverse of that on the client and that works but it was custom and it was it's super fragile and it's hard to hard to use so instead something i'm really interested in something i think framework should be looking at is something i'm calling of prop compression, which essentially, since you're hydrating a huge JSON object often, or sometimes, essentially you should have the opportunity to, if the keys are shown multiple times, replace that with a placeholder, and then have your own custom ability to basically, you build your own custom library on every single page that reverse unpacks that JSON. And so that's in the next version of ElderJS that should be released in the next couple of weeks. And so on a tangible level, on the Texas page, if I'm remembering the stats right, it reduced it 60%, the JSON payload size. And after Broatly, it was still 10% smaller. So even after browser compression which is pretty substantial And it only adds about somewhere around 20 or 30 milliseconds depending on your your uh your browser and your connection and your hardware and all that stuff But since we're using request idle callback, uh, it's, I think it's totally fine to, to process that amount. So I'm pretty proud of that. Spent a lot of time. Like you ever get a problem that you're like brain won't stop thinking about that. That's been the problem that I've been thinking about for months. So it's pretty cool to see that. And I'm dreaming about it, which is really weird. And I still see an optimization that's a little bit past that where it currently stands, but I'm not going to tackle it because I'm not a JavaScript wizard yet. I'm not willing to kind of go down that route. I've been kicking the idea back and forth with Luke Edwards, and he has some ideas on how to improve it as well. But we'll see. It's good enough for now. It compresses pretty well, which is what matters. for reference months uh this rate is basically like a sixth of your javascript career so that's a long a long time thinking about it yeah yeah so so so generally like are there any other like problems that you see in in this felt world that you'd like to well we can talk about the we can talk about the plugins that he's built. I think those are significant improvements since I first came across Elder. And maybe people have not been aware that there's now a plugin ecosystem around Elder. Yeah. So it's kind of fun. Plugins are what keep me lit up about Elder.js, to be honest, because all the first websites I built were built on WordPress. But WordPress, if you bring that up in a developer community, everyone kind of cringes, right? But WordPress did a lot of things interestingly, like they had hooks and you could plug into any part of the build process or even build your own hooks into like, if you had a plugin, you could offer your own hooks. That was really unique. And I found that really powerful. And what we found is when you had hooks, which is kind of ElderJS is built around the idea of hooks. Most of the important stuff that ElderJS does is on a hook and you can actually disable it and add your own hooks if you want. Or you can essentially customize your entire output of your site just via hooks if you want, or the data pipeline, everything. So it's essentially what we found with WordPress, because at the time we were managing 50 sites that were all built on WordPress. And what we found is if we used a standard framework, at the time we were using ThesisTheme, built by my buddy, Chris Pearson.

 What we had is all of our teams would put all the customizations in a hooks.php file. And that allowed us to share a developer across different projects. We put one developer on, maybe they manage three projects. But if another developer was on vacation, they could jump over to the other developer's projects and know that all the weird stuff is going to happen in hooks.php. Well, the same philosophy kind of underpins ElderJS. All the complexity should be encapsulated in your hooks.js or your route files. Those are the only two places it should really live. And in building the hooks, I kind of stumbled across this idea of, hey, maybe I could have like plugins and plugins get their own closure scope, which allow them to store their own data. And they, based on the settings that a plugin is given, they can customize how they perform as well. So basically we have plugins are first class citizens in ElderJS. There's only one hook that they can't use, but you can do full themes. You could do full, like just anything possible with ElderJS, you could do in a plugin. So something I would really like to do as I have time is build like a full blog theme where literally you just drop in Markdown and bam, you have an entire blog with pagination, RSS, sitemap, everything. Because I think if the community understands that, you know, plugins and hooks, like I think that's where the JavaScript ecosystem, in my view, should be moving is essentially like a front end agnostic platform that has a lot of the features that made WordPress successful. like it just seems strange to me that no one's standing there in that that space and i i don't really have ambitions to build that myself but i i think that there's uh really i think elder js is a good proof of concept of how to do it there's a few things i would do differently but i'm really proud of the plugin ecosystem just recently i i redid the the images plugin so if gatsby got a lot of credit for their their like fade in images and the fanciness essentially elder js does the same thing with responsive images and now i just completely redid it so man i'm talking so fast i need to take a breath sorry um essentially i get fired up about this stuff if you guys haven't noticed um but essentially let's say you have an internal dashboard like all of all the sites that i run there's i only really publicly talk about find energy and elder guide but i have several other sites that run on elder js and all of them we have a team where you can upload an image to a dashboard. Well, with the earlier version of the plugin, uh, of the images plugin for elder JS you couldn like you couldn use those images in the plugin Now if you have any page that essentially needs to compress and resize images like let say essentially what the plugin does let me back up a little bit. What the plugin does is it will compress your images into WebP, JPEG, and PNG in however many sizes you want. And then it will allow you to embed it on the page. And then based on the browser resolution, it will show you the most optimized image for you. you weren't able to use that if you hosted your images on say like s3 or something like that so now the new plugin if even if you even if you don't use ldjs you can use this library to compress all of your images and resize them and even use it on any sort of framework so i'm excited about that i'm also excited about an seo check plugin which will check your output i think i talked about it briefly roughly 50 different opinionated seo things there's a sitemap plugin there's a critical path css plugin that needs a little bit of a rework but it's pretty good. There's, there's, there's a bunch. Yeah. There's a Markdown plugin that allows you to. When I joined, when I joined, when I used ElderJS, there wasn't a Markdown plugin. Yeah. And we had to figure all this out. Yeah. So now it's, it's the standard template uses the Markdown plugin. So you just drop Markdown files in and you get, it'll display it for you, which is pretty fantastic. And it includes a code highlighting and all that other stuff, fun stuff yeah i'm it's kind of fun to single-handedly build your own ecosystem which is where i've been trying to prove and then now people are starting to add their own plugins and it's uh it's really nice like there's a blog pagination plugin uh that's built now and there's there's a few other uh plugins out there uh that are just uh fantastic i think kev you've built one oh yeah yeah the the google fonts one yeah so it's uh it's been fun it's it's fun to watch it grow and i'm i'm enjoying kind of being the steward of that yeah nice so the the hooks that you're talking about they're uh they're meant to like hook into different parts of the build system build uh pipeline how would you describe that yeah so i guess i did it i'm not really like a javascript guy that much like i i kind of don't have any formal training as we've talked about so i i like global state a lot but there's a lot of problems with global state right so if it's mutated at the wrong time, you got problems. So I came up with this idea of like, I call it the hook interface which essentially passes you in a proxy of the of the props or whatever of the global state just a few elements of the global state on each hook where it should be mutated If you try to mutate it on a hook where it not able to it'll throw an error. So now we get the benefits of global state, but none of the real downsides. And so hooks allow you to plug into any stage of the build pipeline and kind of customize it. So whether you want to compress the HTML or you want to add data that's used by many pages on one place, So you're not querying the database a bunch of times, or you want to, I don't know, like on elder guide, we have like our own little, uh, custom API key that we add that does some security on it. If you want to add that to every page, you can do that. Or you want to add Google analytics. It's just writing a single hook and it's added. So you basically have all the power and all the complexities in a single file by default. Um, it's pretty, it works out really well across, uh, across our teams. We like them a lot. The thing that I think doesn't get the most credit, but I think is pretty amazing is shortcodes. Shortcodes have basically been a game changer for our business, basically since they've been around in WordPress. And we use shortcodes super heavily because the problem is, as you get to a certain size, you have a content team. You have someone that's writing content. And even in the companies that I've worked with, they have a content team that's disconnected from the development team. And then you have a marketing team. You have all these people that have requirements. and short codes allow you to essentially give power to non-developers and to essentially future proof your content. The good example of this is, uh, let's say you have a blog and you have some YouTube videos. If you add those YouTube videos using the embed code and Google or YouTube changes that down the road or whatnot, you have to go change your embed code on every single post. Instead, you should create a short code that just you pass in the YouTube ID and then you can control embed code for the entire site. And that's not a new idea. WordPress definitely pioneered it. And I think there was something before it that did really well. What we find is it allows us to move a lot faster because we can have a much smaller content team. That's interesting. And they're asynchronous too. So sorry to interrupt. Basically, I feel like asynchronous shortcodes are like a superpower. So essentially, for instance, like right now on Fine Energy, we have a very non-technical guy that's basically the business manager. And he one of the co but he wants to be able to show really complex graphs and all these different things that require API calls or database calls We can give him a short code and hey I want to show this really complex table He can do that in Markdown We just give him the short code and we encapsulate the complexity on the back end. He has all the power, but he's not going to shoot himself in the foot, which is pretty nice. I'd say that you're responsible for changing my opinion on MDX versus short codes. And I even wrote a blog post about that, which I'm going to stick in the show notes. but yeah it's it's a really and it's future proof which is something that you didn't really talk about um but once you've ported content around for long enough you start to value these things 100 cool um yeah did we want to talk broader svelte or do we have time yeah yeah we do we do Okay. So what made you PixVault? Because there are a lot of frameworks, right? Yeah. So when Broadband Now was growing, I was kind of a front-end developer. I knew some CSS, HTML. My business partner would do all of the data and I would do the presentation layer until I could hire someone else that was better than me. After selling Broadband Now, I had some downtime and I was playing with different frameworks. And I built something on Gatsby and I didn't like react i just felt like it was bloated and slow and overly complex and then i used svelte on like just something small to like play with and i remember being on like the repl or whatever and being like whoa this is like magic and i like told everyone i knew about svelte and then i kept on like waiting for like a static site generator to support svelte that wasn't uh wasn't sapper because in my mind like the what's on the back end what's on the front front end of sapper was really confusing to me and it didn't really make sense. And I was really, I don't know, I loved Svelte and I loved Sapper, but I could never wrap my head and it never really clicked for me. And so I was telling everyone about it. I was like, but there needs to be something here because this shit's magical. This is like superpowers. I can now build stuff that would take me forever in jQuery. I wouldn't even know how to approach and react. And it's just such a better onboarding process, I think for, for teaching people, I think, I think Svelte is magical. What's been created by the community is just incredible. Yeah. That's really nice to hear. Like, uh, I, I had the same reaction when I, when I first tried Svelte, like I was using react before that, but then like tried Svelte and I'm like, Nope, not working with react anymore. My basically quit my job and, uh, yeah, I went for Svelte.

 And now you're working on a company that's betting on Svelte full-time. Yeah, exactly. It's interesting to see it grow. I think this is how it starts. It's very hard to bet against the mainstream when there's a clear dominant framework. But I think Svelte solves a lot of the problems that web developers just have. And sometimes you just need the more opinionated approach. Yeah, I think I did the same thing as Kev. really just uh i had to start a company so i could use felt you know need some us and all that yeah hopefully it's better now and and if you if you look at the like the trajectory of like like people going to the the felt subreddit and people listening to the podcast and going to the felt society website if you look at the numbers it's all like pointing like up to the right if that makes sense it's really nice to see i mean it's still Oh, go ahead. Sorry, if I can interject here. Here's what I've heard from the CTOs of mid-sized companies. The reason they like React is because essentially they view React developers as interchangeable. And essentially that gives them business continuity, right? Where I think Svelte really shines is it allows someone that knows CSS, HTML, and some JavaScript to do really amazing stuff. And so I think we're going to see adoption from the smaller companies first. And then as, unfortunately, I have to say this, as Svelte developers become more interchangeable, you'll see larger companies start betting on it more. Because right now, if you try to hire for a Svelte developer, as I've tried, you get all different levels of skill. And the top end, there's definitely some super talented users. But I think the average business is struggling to figure out how to get the top end developers. And the top end developers are trying to figure out how to be found as well. I think the realization is eventually that you stop classifying developers by the framework because that's too broad of a brush. There's really good React developers as well, and they're really bad ones. So there's good and bad in all frameworks, and it turns out that you probably need to cut it a different way. But I understand. It's something that I'm dealing with at my company as well. So I've been thinking a bit about this. And like, it feels like it would be easier to convert someone that's a good React developer into being a good Svelte developer than the other way around Or well I mean because of the quirks that you have in React I guess is that something that you guys also find true or not true I don't have that large of a sample size of React developers that I've worked with, unfortunately. But I would say that, well, if this is telling, both of the React developers I've worked extensively with now use Svelte exclusively. And they were both pretty good developers, so I think that's a good sign. Yeah, I have to say the same sort of thing. I think the ones that I've worked with and respected as developers have basically either converted fully or sort of, you know, tried to start looking for something in Svelte, you know, and used it on their personal projects and things like that. the React developers I used to work with that I'm not in close contact with probably still use React I don't know, it's just kind of an easy route isn't it but the code bases we were working on and they were good developers it just had that classic React thing of everything just being in one big bunch of JSX and I just didn't like working on it at all so I don't know, it's hard to say but I would say that those who have spent time looking into it are definitely now using svelte as much as they possibly can you know while still getting a wage i guess something that's really blowing my mind is uh scott talinski rewriting his site from react to svelte yes after he just rewrote it last year and and i think this happens a lot when like people try it out and they're like oh okay i'll just play with it you know just to see what's up what's happening and then and then you really get into it yeah it's it's quite amazing like it's it's fun to see i'm trying to i'm trying to figure out how because i'm i'm going to rip apart beyond can build it into different modules because i want to move a lot of it to kit um i'm wondering if i should build a whole marketplace part in elder jess now now that i know more about it now i've had time to kind of talk about it uh because it's just the pattern just fits what we're doing really you know it's very seo heavy it's very much static content once it's out there so i might be in touch awesome yeah and one of the things that i'm i'm not trying to step on SvelteKit shoes at all, but we found on certain sites that I can't talk about or that I don't talk about publicly that we need server-side rendering. And so as of the last release, that's very possible and you have full control. The same stuff you could do in any Express app or Polka app you can do in ElderJS now And so it got a very clear migration guide like path not a guide yet but a very clear path if you need server rendering and you want to move away from static site generation. Because what we found, and I haven't yet done this on any site, is what I would really like to do is stay with server-side rendering and then put a Cloudflare worker in front of it that has super aggressive caching. because essentially you have a static site generator on demand and you purge your cache and then you now have all fresh pages. But right now, regardless of how fast ElderJS builds, there's tests to run, there's uploading S3 in all of our pipelines, and our fastest pipeline is like 15 minutes for a build. And that's really, I like it much faster than that. Yeah, it seems reasonable, yeah. It's great that you're thinking about this because that's probably one of the biggest debates going on in Jamstack right now. Like how much should you pre-generate up front versus how much did you just defer until requested and then stick it behind the CDN because those things exist and we should make use of them. And I think essentially that line of thinking makes incremental generation, essentially building only the pages that have changed, a moot point. And I think developers find incremental generation or like building part of your site that has changed a very sexy problem. It's like super fun. It ticks all the boxes. It's like, I got to track data. I got to figure out how to do all this stuff. It's super hard problem. But at the end of the day, it's kind of, it's reinventing the wheel because you essentially get the same outcome if you put it behind a super aggressive, like Cloudflare worker or something like that. Yeah. Cool. So we've, we've talked a bit about the good parts of Svelte or why we like Svelte. Maybe, maybe something about the bad parts. What, what are, what are you missing in Svelte? The biggest thing I'm missing is there's a ticket for better hydration. And it was merged briefly. And I was very happy about that. Like anything I could do to get that merged, I was going to push. And then it got unmerged because there was a small breaking change. So currently the way hydration works is let's say I give you all the HTML for your page. And then I hydrate it. And we know it's been server rendered. It destroys the entire HTML structure and then rebuilds it from scratch. and what this causes, and this SEO is a lot of speculation, right? What I found is that pages that have components above the fold so they being hydrated by ElderJS they not ranking as well as ones that have components below the fold which is just very strange Because for instance on ElderGuide certain pages have a substantial amount of content that is hydrated above the fold, and other ones don't, even though they're the same, very similar content. So they should be ranking similarly. It'd be indexed similarly. So here's my theory. My theory is that Google is very public, that it has two different types of bots, one that renders JS and one that doesn't. And the one that doesn't, essentially it will go through the page. And if it's a static page, it will evaluate the content on that. If it's substantially JavaScript heavy, I think it gets kicked to the JavaScript bot before you get any real credibility. But essentially, I believe it's estimated to be roughly two months on a new site before the JavaScript bot comes around. And it's much less frequent. It has to do with your crawl budget. And so, yeah, I just think that we really need to solve this because from Googlebot's view, the HTML is getting completely destroyed and rebuilt. So they don't know what it is. And so if we could have it so that only when it's hydrated, it only changes what it needs to change, that really is the right way to go. And I understand Rich's point of view and the original design behind this that maybe let's say I'm hydrating a clock, right? It's not going to have the same state in the first... The moment it was rendered on the server and the moment that it's rendered on the client, they're not going to be in sync. But for the vast majority of static sites, they are going to be in sync. And so I don't think we should be having basically this ineffective system to destroy the HTML then rebuild it from scratch. It should just hydrate in place. Yeah, this is all magic to me. That's my only complaint. There's some issues with form inputs as well they get reset i've been going through some of the old svelte issues and these are some of the longest hanging standing issues in svelte so we probably have to deal with this at some point but i'm not sure what exactly got it reverted but it's probably worth taking a look at again it was when there was two text nodes together i believe two text nodes together when they were touching sometimes it would cause spacing issues yeah wow i remember that one i i read something about duplication. Some issue with duplication as well. I could be thinking about another issue. Cool. Any other stuff you want to talk about before we move on to

 Well, popular opinions. Maybe I just start with that because it kind of falls in the same category, but it has to do with one thing I don't love about Svelte or any framework right now. And I think the framework should move into this. So this is this would be my unpopular opinion. My unpopular opinion is that since these frameworks allow for server side rendering and then they also allow for hydration, there's essentially no reason really when you have a compiler for a tool like ElderJS to exist. Essentially, when you hydrate something, or when you render it on the server, you should get the hydration code right away. Like, why wouldn't that be generated? All you'd have to pass in is the relative path to a component. And you would have all of it, because essentially the compiler could know all the props. It knows the component name. It could set a wrapping class on it that allows you to, or a wrapping ID that allows you a target to hydrate on. It could generate all the code for you. I'm just surprised that no one is doing that. Um, none of the frameworks are doing it as far as I know. And it really seems like the next obvious step. You could do prop compression there, uh, as well. You could do all this stuff. And I'm surprised that, especially since Svelte is a compiler, uh, at its core, it doesn't offer that. And this was something I had kind of pushed and got a bit of a pushback from, uh, some of the maintainers that that's really the, that that's the framework world, but it seems like a strange separation to me. And I'm really bad at separation of, of, uh, like the different layers of something. Like I, sometimes I struggle with that because I don't have like traditional training, but to me as like somewhat of an outsider, cause I kind of straddle the line between JavaScript guy and not, uh, it, it seems like it should exist. Yeah. Agreed. Um, now that you mentioned it, I'm going to, I'm going to breach the topic that we've been discussing offline a little bit. Astro has come out very similar. Uh, you're having some chats with Fred shot. Uh, so, so for those who don't know, astro.build is, is this, this project site and it's kind of like a framework agnostic way to, it's kind of like the non-svelte part of Elder. And then you can layer in whatever framework you want. And it seems like they have very similar goals. What is the status of the discussions on how much duplicate work is going on? I haven't heard anything back from him, unfortunately, since the initial reach out. I have had a surprising amount of people ask me if I'm going to stop working on Elder.js because Astro exists which is really strange to me Like two people have asked asked me which is like like why would there be that Like and I was telling one of my team members that I like you know my goal is not to become like the de facto framework for everyone. Like I'm building this as for, because our businesses need it. And we might as well open source it because you have to create documentation anyways. And so if you're creating documentation, you might as well offer it to the community and the community can help you improve it. And yeah, there's some burden there, But listen, I run my own company. I can handle that burden. You know what I mean? I don't have anyone I have to report to. Like I might as well do this because I'm interested in it. So no, I'm not stopping because Astro entered. I also think like I've had some time to really study how they're doing things. And I think it's great for a small site. I think as soon as you go against their opinions, you're going to have trouble. And I've tried it like they've done a great job minimizing the complexity, the complexity of doing what ElderJS does and like hydration. and they offer the same settings, everything. It's like fantastic. It's really impressive. But my concern is that as soon as you do something that they're not intending you to do, like a business requirement will force you to do, you're going to have to figure out how to do it. And ElderJS, even though it has a steeper learning curve, I think it tries to get out of your way. Like you can disable all of what ElderJS does if you want to and build your own. And so it's, yeah, I just think that it's not quite as pluggable. But I think my main thread to Fred is that I think that we as a community should figure out some sort of hook interface or some sort of interface that allows a plugin ecosystem to thrive. And even if ElderJS has to be completely rewritten, I'm fine with that. But like a plugin ecosystem for Svelte or for all of these frameworks should exist because that's what is needed to replace WordPress. Because more and more, like even the company that acquired my last company is moving towards WordPress because all the content editors like that. But they're using headless WordPress. And so if we can offer plugins that do essentially what WordPress has done in the past, we're going to be so much better as a developer community. So I'd like to see that happen. Yeah, it's weird. It's kind of the backend equivalent of what's happening. Like web components are framework agnostic. I would like framework plugins and hooks to be framework agnostic because there's a lot of work that went into Gatsby's plugins, but they're gated to Gatsby. And now every time I change frameworks I have to reinvent the universe And even regular Svelte developers cannot benefit from the Svelte image plugin the elder image plugin So there is a separate effort to work on Svelte image And it's just all this duplication that I'm sure is resulting in local... It's good because you get to dictate your own rules, but it's bad globally because you don't get to benefit from people's shared expertise and all this stuff. if you can plug me in with the guy that's working on the Svelte image I'm happy I've extracted the other JS code so that it can be 100% agnostic you just give it images and it gives you back fully compressed stuff I don't know who it's working on I know it exists, that's all I think the problem here is partly an issue about business moats, right? the gatsby plug-in system yeah yeah i guess yeah that makes sense but anyway well it's it's a dream and uh but reality is very different but uh we can at least try to talk as always maybe svelte maybe the svelte ecosystem can can show a positive example cool all right that's uh i wanted to get that get that in there just because i think uh i've been hearing some buzz about astro uh but i definitely believe in the idea that you don't have to take over the world make things that are suitable for your for your own purposes and make yourself happy and share it and that's it you know there's the there's a there's multiple winners in the world that can co-exist yep all right so uh sean you you uh you also have an unpopular opinion this week i i was trying to i was trying to come up with something just because like we're trying to keep the segment going uh of the podcast so unpopular opinion is i think we should make a we should work on a Svelte ID. So this is something that Rich Harris started way back in, I think, three years ago now in one of his... Did he call it a Svelte ID? Or he called it something else? Sapper ID? There was a Sapper ID. I think there's another notion now that's along the same lines, but more generic. Might be SvelteKit ID by this point. Right, exactly. And so the last time we podcasted, I started talking about this idea that we should edit our components next to the components, not having to toggle between the browser and the editor, but to bring the editor into the browser and be able to click on the component and edit a source code and have it live refresh So that evolving into what I think the Svelte ID should look like um which is something that is maybe unpopular now but could be the future of how we make svelte um i don know but it's it's at least interesting to me so i might i might start hacking on it um i did so i i think between the last time we did the recording and now i did write a proof of concept which i shared and got some interest. Yeah, that was cool. I like the idea for sure. The conclusion is I was trying to use the new browser file system API so you can edit files from the browser. But the problem is that it requires you to give very broad and vague permissions. And I actually tried to request more specific permissions to access files so it could function just like a regular IDE. And they said no because of the security concerns. so i think trying to do it purely from the browser it probably doesn't make sense so you need to have some kind of electron slash deno slash qt setup uh to make this what what about what about that um that thing that was released was it a couple of weeks ago that they they made some what was it it It was on the Next.js and the, what was it called? It was like an IDE in the browser that used WASM and stuff. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. I don't remember what it was called. That's Stacklitz's implementation, which uses WebAssembly. The problem is that these are all virtual files that are maintained on a remote server. So if you want to edit local files on your desktop, it doesn't have access to that. so yeah i think i still think a locals file id probably would would help um but yeah you know this is one of the the debates that's going on in web development like should you develop do all your development on a remote machine so you never have environment issues again or do you preserve do you want to preserve that speed of response and total control by having it everything locally on your on your machine i feel like i'm i'm on the local machine side but i don't have a strong reason apart from that's how it's always been done. And if I'm on a plane, you know, that stupid analogy, like if I'm on a plane, I can still continue working and I'm like, that's bullshit. I'm always sleeping on a plane. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But so, so we had Mike on from Gitpod. Yes. Right. And they, their, their whole business idea is basically moving people from the, from the local environment to the cloud. So if you want to hear more about that, you can

 listen to that episode. All right, picks. I can go first. So this week I have picked WebAuthn. So that's a browser API that handles authentication on the web in a generic way. So you can basically log in using Touch ID on your iPhone or your Mac or your fingerprint scanner on your Android phone or whatever. And it's actually got pretty good browser support nowadays. You can basically implement an authentication system using that. And it's more private for users. Yeah. Check it out if you're interested in. So I haven't read too far into this, but every single time that someone has introduced web often to be uh it's required handing out a token that you have to carry around with you is that true is that still the same way so uh a token as in like a virtual token no like a physical thing that you carry around with you oh like a ubiki or something right uh uh no not like well it kind of depends because like if if the if the system that you're you're on has some kind of biometric system like the iPhone can use your face ID, for example, or your touch ID. And your Android phone can use the equivalent of whatever phone you have there. Or you can use a key if that's what you want. It's an interface to the hardware authentication mechanisms, right? So it's just all it's doing is putting these things in the browser. so you can log in via whatever method your website wants you to as long as, you know, if you've just got a browser, you can use Face ID because browsers don support that But WebAuthn is a standard for giving your browser Face ID support and integrating with the hardware directly so it will give you anything anything like yubi key or face id or touch id it's really it's really quite clever actually but it's you know it's something that i guess it closes that gap again from native applications and browser-based applications because up until this was introduced you couldn't use any of that nice stuff with with a web app so it's good i think it's really good it does work they've got a nice demo on the site actually So you can just go and it's got some really undecipherable configuration that it asks you about. I don't know why it does that, but I just ignored them all and went, click, face ID, and I could log in. Same here. You put it much more eloquently than I did. Well, just waffling, really. I'm trying to think of what I thought when I saw it because I see these things and I kind of glaze over immediately because there's so many of them and it's all so fancy and I've never had a chance to implement any of it. But yeah, it's really impressive, actually. Yeah, so the thing is that up until recently, the support hasn't been great for it, right? So that's probably where, it's probably at the point where you can start implementing it without having to worry about, well, you always have to worry about old browsers, I guess. Cool. All right. My pick. I'm going to pick web.dev learn CSS today. so this is a initiative from the chrome dev rel team i think uh but just the chrome team in general on like hey you know people always say they they want better resources to learn css so this is the official like from chrome uh this is css according to us and it's very simply written uh it's 24 chapters and it's essentially an online book you know uh but if you wanted i think what matters here because there are tons of css books out there i've read i've read my fair share uh there's mdn And they're all information laid out in different ways. But some of them go too detailed and some of them don't give enough context. And what really matters is the curation and the explanation for people It should not talk down to you too much but also it should explain to you everything that you must know to be a good competent web dev for CSS And it comes from Unara Kravitz and Adam Argyle and Andy Bell. These are some of just the most skilled CSS people in the business. So I'm making my way through some of these and I just find it really rewarding to, I mean, it comes from Chrome. Like it's pretty good. Yeah, and they have, a podcast, right? And the podcast is linked to each chapter. It's very hard to follow the podcast. I try to listen to it, but when you try to mouthcode CSS, it doesn't work. Yeah, that's hard. But I don't know. Some people might like it. Yeah, so whatever it is, they use that work to translate into this resource. So now you can read this resource. Yeah. All right. Nick, what's your, what's your pick? Yeah. My pick is a post graph file. Basically, if you have a postgres database, it'll spin up a full graph QL endpoint for you. And I whipped together a small little plugin that will lock down what mutations and what's, what's visible based on a JavaScript web token. And man, we have this like very simple spelt form builder that allows us to like churn out like admin interfaces like super fast. Um, and it's all because a PostGraph file is building you an entire crud backend for you. Uh, that's pretty easy to secure. Um, like basically automatically, like I love it. Uh, the idea of writing, like if you have a really complex, uh, stored procedure or function and, uh, you can basically immediately turn that into a, an endpoint, or you can write your own GraphQL endpoint if you want, and it'll pick it up on top of it. So we love it. Um, I can't imagine the way I build sites. Essentially, I've said Svelte plus PostGraph file is like cheat codes. It takes out all the bad stuff out of building stuff I so happy with both of them Nice Yeah I haven tried it yet I've been more on the Hasura side of things. So I just vaguely am aware of PostGraph file as more independent Hasura because Hasura is kind of venture-backed in and trying to build its own ecosystem as a GraphQL gateway. Sorry about that. I think there was some lag. It's basically like Svelte in that space. it's very community backed and they've got some really cool ideas the thing I don't like about Hasura is it's AGPL which should one part of your code touch their backend it's now all open source so your attorney friends will basically tell you to stay away from that considering one of my best friends is an attorney and a very good one he's like don't touch that find a different solution okay and PostgreSQL is MIT awesome Anthony? I don't have a pick. I don't have a pick. Because I keep looking for things on my desk and it's really lame. So I'm just not going to do it. I'm going to dip out this time. And I'll come up with something that's not in my 180 eyesight. All right. Okay, cool. So I guess that's it. Thanks for coming on, Nick. Where can people find you online? NicholasReese.com or NickReese on Twitter. I don't tweet much. I'm on the place that most active is probably GitHub and the Svelte Discord. So if you need something, you can ping me on there. I'm pretty good about replying. Yeah, I like the Svelte Discord a lot. There's a new ElderJS channel on the Svelte Discord. Yeah, there is. We didn't even mention that. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. That's pretty nice. All right. We need a policy around that. But I think it's generally nice to have people, like major Svelte projects in the Svelte Discord as well to recognize the contribution it's making to the system. Yep. agreed I definitely felt honored from it thank you guys Sean you helped make that happen thank you cool all right well yeah see you guys take care guys bye