 Hey, we're back. Another episode. Full cast today. Sean's here. Anthony's here. I'm here. And today we're going to talk about the adventures of running a Svelte meetup. Hi guys, what's up? Hey, hey. Hey. We meet up every week now. Yeah, it's nice. It's nice. You get to talk to people often now, right? Sean, you're traveling once again? I'm in San Francisco now. I might be going to Miami next again. are you just ping-ponging back and forth yeah yeah just uh i didn't really plan all this but it's just happening that way and uh playing it by ear nice just having a jolly does sound fun i actually booked a flight the other day so i'm going to to jay's conf budapest and i decided to get to go for a for a bit longer than the conference itself so i'm probably staying close to a week which is nice what about you anthony are you what are you been up to yeah just you know usual kind of bit of work having fun uh what have i done in the last week not i mean i've done an immense amount of things and nothing at the same time i guess you know it feels like the weeks just fly by right now yeah i would say probably the most poignant thing is is another one of those like let's open a discussion thing which is branch-based deploys are great when you've got an app that runs. It's just kind of a single thing and it runs on its own. How are people doing it when you've got an entire platform with, let's say, about 10 apps? Because it gets much more difficult. And I think I'd definitely be interested in ideas to see what other people are doing in this instance because, you know, one QA environment for a whole team is not very sustainable. So that's the current challenge on my mind. I don't get it. Why is it different for 10 apps? Well because you might have a branch on three different apps because you are building a feature across three apps right So you want those three branches to deploy to an environment and then you want master or main or whatever for everything else So you've got your whole application running with your new branch, with your new branches. Okay. Before you merge them all back into main. Got it. So like, for example, on the cell, you can deploy a branch automatically. every branch deploys, gets its own little subdomain. You can't do that really when you've got loads of apps because each one's independently deployed. It's tricky. It gets trickier. That sounds like not so fun. It would be great when it works, but... Yeah, yeah. I'm sure there's like some nice SaaS company that charges like $60,000 a month to solve this for you. No, you should solve your own problems and then it starts out. Beyond web services. You build your own platform. BWS. Oh dear. The problem is this actually happens and then I end up with yet another thing to look over. Yeah, second business. It's fine. If you want to build AWS on your own, maybe. BWS. Sorry, BWS. Sean has experience working at AWS. Maybe you can recruit him to build it for you. All right, so this topic, we're going to talk about organizing and hosting Svelte meetups, pretty much. So we all, way, way back in, I think it was 2019, right? We all organized a meetup roughly at the same time. It's Anthony's fault, basically. I'm very sorry, I'm not sorry. Sorry, not sorry. it was it was a good uh it was a good uh how do you say it in in english like a in swedish you'd say kick in the butt get started yeah yeah it's a kick in the butt for myself for sure it's like oh we're in a meetup oh i've no idea to organize things i don't know how to do public speaking i'll just wing the whole thing yeah yeah it was the same for me and i think i think sean you'd probably done some talks and stuff before yeah i've done i've done a few more events but it was the first time i guess uh starting one from scratch yeah yeah so so how like when i started i like anthony i had no idea about public speaking I didn know how this thing worked I just created an account on meetup and I just created an event Well the group first and then the event I didn't have a venue and I just yellowed it and magically someone appeared offering their uh their like venue so I was lucky I guess I don't know how how did you guys find a venue um well I mean for me it was pretty easy I just tweeted it out and then I got like a venue and like speakers and uh 50 people signed up so it wasn't that hard right you you probably had a pretty large following compared to to the two of us well well um it also helps that like and this is the whole reason i did it was um i had rich harris in my city that is true that's that's like a cheat code that's a cheat code so yeah i don't it's not it's not all me so how i did it well i had a friend who i used to work with me you know he was he was a web dev back in the day i guess he sort of realized his own dream of owning a bar running a pub whatever and so he bought with with two other friends this this huge bar in in east london called a fugitive motel and i went for a visit to see him i hadn't seen him about 10 years and i wanted to see like what this place was like and it's absolutely massive like it's humongous and it's almost like it's so big you can split it in two and so i was looking around and i noticed they've got a massive screen for sports and stuff i was chatting around with him and he's like oh you know we want to do like we actually started doing a couple of like conferences here and i was like hey that's interesting and so kind of stars aligned because at the time i was mulling over the idea of a spelt meetup and so i thought well i can have it here we can test this out and see what this setup's like and and that's kind of it really and it was pretty pretty much perfect because this we had this whole other side of the bar to ourselves great screen hdmi hook up all the speakers and stuff um you know in the room operating for us um and people just kind of kind of wandered in and you know the food's good there and stuff so you've you know when you start a meetup you can't afford food and drink for everyone so it's kind of by your own but it's right there no one has to like bring anything in or anything like that so it was really convenient and i know there a lot of stuff around running it in a bar isn necessarily accessible for everybody it not necessarily you know kind of inclusive but at the time it what i had and it was it was a perfect venue in my eyes for that so it worked pretty well and we actually filled the room on the first meetup which was probably the most surprising of all i don't know svelte 3 had just released right well it's true it just released yeah and there was also the noise of the new york meetup and stuff as well that helped yeah and so people got really interested at that point i guess thing always where's my london one yeah yeah and so and so it went pretty well uh we've done it in a few venues since because we you know we've added new um organ co-organizers so joe he he happened to live this is going to sound weird he happened to live at a college that was in east london i don't know how that works but it's this this sort of house that's got residential flats on top it's the london school of politics i believe and downstairs they've just got this massive empty warehouse and so they do talks in there and conferences so also a really cool venue oh nice yeah and it's around the corner from the other one so anyone who comes to one can kind of get that one pretty easily but yeah so that that's also a good venue we've got that and you know that's sort of um available for us to use when we want to now um and i think we're looking at another venue as well just just to mix it up a bit you know make it make yeah yeah that makes sense so you've been pretty lucky with the venues then i can imagine look but i think i think it's not you don't need to be lucky or well connected or anything like that you know it's just a matter of places have this availability and you just have to find the right amount of stuff like well so before you continue um kev i was gonna say the the reason we get for example all this for free at fugitive is because we bring people to a place that sells things right and so they get they get money when they're low right because covid almost killed them you know and so they get revenue from people being there we get a free venue so it works for everyone really we we do it on days where they didn't have much foot traffic anyway so we're kind of giving them customers yeah that makes sense i think so so for for the stockholm one the first venue we had it was some weird like i can't remember exactly what the service was but they were doing something in like healthcare like some kind of solution for healthcare providers to hire personnel like in in times of when they needed extra manpower for some reason they were also interested in svelte and so we we just ended up being in their huge

 pretty corporate office, but that was pretty cool. But since then, they only wanted to host once. I don't know if they actually got what they wanted from that. Maybe it was a bit too much work. So we ended up at a place where... So it's like a consulting firm called Valtek. They're pretty big around the globe. And so ever since that first time, we've been at this Valtek place. and they have pretty nice setup. They have all the audio and the video equipment, all of that stuff set up already. And they usually provide the food and some drinks for everyone that comes. And I suppose in exchange, they get to talk with developers that are actually interested in developing because interested developers show up to meetups, right? So for them, I think it's kind of like a recruiting thing, which makes sense. But yeah, I kind of want to mix it up a bit. So next month we're going to be at one of Sweden's largest newspaper companies, which is nice. And we're going to do like a data viz graphics stuff. It's funny how like so many papers around the world use Svelte for data viz. It's actually pretty nice. Well, you know, that's kind of where it stemmed from, I suppose. Yeah, yeah. yeah i mean honestly i think that you know we talk about this now when we were kind of like an unknown and we're scraping around fine venues as this grows and as every other framework language wherever has grown we end up in a position whereby we we have a an ever-growing mass of people and at that point for example i was involved very early on um in 2017 with a couple of guys who were into blockchain and they made a thing in blockchain call in london called blockchain beginners and i think their third meetup they had 400 people attend 400 people in the waiting list literally queuing outside to come to this conference right and it's just these two blokes who just like well let's run a blockchain conference and you know it's to do with the popularity it's to do with the with the mass right and at that point we were hosting it in this absolutely humongous building. I can't remember if it was like Salesforce or Bloomberg or somebody's bottom of their ground floor where they would normally do their own conferences or internal conferences but they a big company so huge you know thousand conferences And they provided drinks food security everything right And they were one of many people who were begging them to host at their place because they're getting a little picture and their names in the background. They've got their, you know, someone introducing, they've got their advertising, leaflets, whatever they want to do. They're getting 400, 800-odd, not all engineers, but engineers, product managers, interested people, whoever, turning up and like a captive audience in their building. And I think that that mass, you know, helps with that. You can just, people will give you hosting. People will be dying to host you at that point. So, Sean, you hosted a watch party for the last Svelte Summit. What was the experience doing that? Oh, my goodness. That was basically a mini conference. Yeah. Because what was the origin of that? uh i had no idea what why did i do it um i just thought you you wanted to to meet people while you were in new york and you wanted to do a watch party or something did i did i fly to new york just to do that i don't actually remember why else i did it yeah i think i flew to new york just to do that um yeah i think so we had felt summit and i think everyone had got their vaccines and it seemed like uh there was no big wave or anything like that and uh and i really wanted to do get the in-person thing going again and so uh i thought that salt summit would be a good opportunity and so i i i think i just like proposed it and rich said he would come and then i started needing to look for a venue and all that and basically threw it together within like a couple weeks and what that involves was a hundred people we booked out like a warehouse in brooklyn and then getting a bunch of sponsors to uh sponsor you know food and i guess the venue itself was the biggest expense and then also like i guess we had an after party which uh fauna very kindly stepped in then and helped to sponsor because that was way more expensive than i expected because it involved drinks and games and stuff like that and then yeah i mean i think basically once you announce an event like that, it will probably fill up. And yeah, it really did. Including the Vercel team came by. Temporal also sponsored because we're using Svalte, SvalteKit. And when I say Vercel like Gajermo Roush showed up That was pretty random Yeah half of his team It was random at the time And then we found out that Richard was joining Vercel So maybe not so random. But I think also like they were taking this opportunity to gather everyone in New York. So not so much of a surprise. I think the other thing that was really interesting was just how much people just step forward and propose stuff. Like I said, bring your own booze, like BYOB. Because I didn't want to pay for alcohol, essentially. Yeah, yeah. Because I didn't have a license or anything like that. I just didn't want to worry about that. But I was like, if you want to bring your own, that's fine. And then a bunch of people just brought way too much alcohol and just left it on the table. So then we had the Svelte House or Svelte Shack. And I just brought back a whole bunch of alcohol that we could never finish. So yeah, I think that was a really crazy event. But I think for me, that was the biggest event so far that I've been primary organizer for. and i think it's a nice practice run for future events that you know where i expect more people yeah well what what did you what was like the the the bad parts and the good parts like what did you learn any anything that stands out well you know for for people who who run events like this is a well-known thing that you typically have to put your own money up front to book a venue and then the sponsors come in later yep and and so yeah i mean it is a big decision and big financial risk. But, you know, people are very, very kind of sponsoring. So I think, I don't think that's a, that's a real issue. And then the logistics of making sure everyone comes in with their, like the tables and the food and making sure you have enough food and then realizing you have too much food and clearing away all the stuff. It's pretty stressful in that day of, and then you can't really be social, which you want to be because you, I mean, you, you organize the conference. So, but your, your responsibility is to make the logistics flow well so that people don't even notice. And I was also the AV guy and, and that meant, that meant that I could not do separate recordings, which I really wanted to. So yeah, I think basically my, my learning is that have a separate logistics person from an organizer who makes sure that everyone is at ease and is introduced to the right people that they want to meet and feels included. You know, I think these are multiple jobs. Yeah, definitely. Yeah. So I, I been as you all probably know I been planning this in conference for the fall And the closer it gets the more daunting i realize that it is and i probably need to hire someone to to handle like the more of the logistical parts but i actually managed to find a venue that doesn't charge up front they actually charge after so so that's pretty nice and they also handle the catering uh which is another nice thing um so hopefully it's going to go smooth. Is there an AV person? No. That's something I'm probably going to have to figure out. I'm going to record them as well, right? And put them on YouTube. I need it to work properly. But yeah, it's a lot of stuff to think about. For me, it's also about the parts that are around the actual conference. So like you have to order lanyards, right? You have to figure out, like if you're doing sponsor booths, you have to make sure that you order roll-ups for the sponsors so they can have like some, because they're not going to, like obviously a San Francisco company isn't going to bring their own booth from San Francisco. They're just going to fly in and they want something that's simple to set up. So that's another thing to think about. And then yesterday I was thinking about like, oh, stickers. I need stickers for like the goodie bag and I need a t-shirt. And now apparently I can't use Fruit of the Loom because they suck according to Anthony. So I need to use, what was the name? Stanley and Stella or something? Stanley Stella, yeah. Yeah. So that's going to be fun to order like a bunch of samples and see how that works out. But yeah, so that's probably like a meetup on steroids. But let's get back to meetups. I find it to be pretty, it's pretty hard to find speakers here in Stockholm. I usually have to do a talk myself. Yeah, I usually have to do at least one talk myself. Like last time we did, I did an intro to Svelte. I think that makes sense to have at meetups, like a short intro. How does it work? Because there are going to be new people there. They want to see what it's about. And then you want maybe an intermediate session and then a more advanced one if you can manage to find someone that can do that.

 for everyone pretty much. But yeah, if you decide to start a meetup, it's definitely be prepared to do at least one or two talks yourself at the start. And then hopefully you can get someone else to chip in. And there's also the option of reaching out to people online and asking them to do it from some other place and just stream it in. I think that's completely fine. yeah there are there are there are great sort of um back obviously in person is a bit easier but given good tech and stuff you can uh have a remote talk it's pretty pretty good yeah we struggled a lot so recently we had these folks uh the the new york meetup be rebooted by uh two guys who are actually in new york instead of me um and uh and rich actually gave a remote talk because he had at the time and we had a lot of av issues like it was it was much better online than it was in person yeah us too we struggled with the for some reason the broadband even though they've got like gigabit broadband um we struggled with it i'm not sure why we end up using a mobile phone but this is just this is just conference fair right this is this is what you're what you have to get used to yeah i i think yeah i think you need a like for for proper like experience especially if you're streaming online, I think you definitely need a separate connection that isn't affected by the venue connection. Well, maybe not at a smaller meetup, but it's definitely something for bigger events. Yeah, I think there are other things to think about when it comes to meetup. How do you find people to come to your meetup? You've got to market it somehow, right? And I think in our case, we're pretty lucky that the Svelte Society account is so huge. It's very, very nice to have that. And for people that want to start meetups, just reach out and we will retweet, of course. The first step is probably to create some kind of meetup.com group or down to meet or whatever. it is you want to use? Well, so it's interesting, the meetup thing So when we first started to start meetups we using meetup and then they changed the pricing model and they also have this really i think it a really bad um strategy or feature you want to call it but if you stop paying for a meetup group um you know subscription lapse they don't remove your group and all its attendees they just open up to take to be taken over anybody and what happens especially with the crypto ones because everyone kind of let them lapse you know uh even bionk's own group had an adventure society group that had thousands of members and they got taken over by basically scammers who had malintents right they wanted to sell something they wanted no one to know that the group had changed hands and it wasn't the group it used to be it was something different and they lured a bunch of people in to some kind of like paid adventure thing thinking it was it was us and previously all of us had been free community events you know that were about adventuring and and the crypto one i mean you can imagine it got even worse than that right so it was i didn't like that behavior of meetup at all and i kind of fell out with it and i thought we'll just move the down to meet or something the problem with that is that all the footfall is on meetup.com if you yeah if your group's on meetup.com you're going to get discovered if it's on down to meet you've got to push people towards it and it's kind of you know it's like a form of lock-in i guess for meetup um it's just one of things yeah yeah i mean they have the the network effect right that's that's pretty much it uh it's it sucks because i also like i i absolutely hate their pricing strategy especially during covet like how how does it even make sense to charge like 80 bucks per i think it's like six months per six months i think you pay pay by half a year at a time like no features yeah exactly because you you can't use it but at the same time like i understand that their their revenues are probably pretty crap during covid but still like you gotta you gotta provide some kind of value yeah they actually they actually so we we i stopped paying for for the group uh during covid and they actually like the group just disappeared so we lost like 350 members i had to restart it so the group disappeared yeah or someone stole it and renamed it because i guess you can do that yeah yeah it's it's very scummy i would yeah i would prefer for them to disappear yeah that would be that that would be a better behavior in my mind i mean it wouldn work for them as well but yeah yeah it is what it is you kind of have to have a meetup group We can probably help out like Svelte Society can probably help out pay. If you're running a local meetup somewhere, we can probably help you pay for that if it's a Svelte Society meetup somewhere in the world. Yeah. So a couple of things on my side. I prefer Luma, L-U-U.M-A. It's good for online meetups as well as in-person meetups. I use Luma both for my work meetups at Temporal and then my Even Svelte Summit, the New York one, also was organized on Luma. So I highly recommend that one. It's basically a simpler Eventbrite. The main thing you want to look for is actually to let people sign up and then just keep them around. So don't keep signing up from scratch. Don't start from zero every time. Just carry over the mailing list of people and also send events directly into their calendar. Don't make them click three times and check their email to sign up for just the next meetup. Just send it directly to the calendar. So Luma does that. And that's great. People can unsubscribe if they want to, but otherwise they're just default on. And so people know when the next thing is and they've already got it on their calendar. to find it. So I think that's pretty important. And then the other thing is if you have a meetup, if you have a Svelte meetup, we actually keep a list of the meetups that have been established by other countries or other cities at Svelte Society. I think it's just go to Svelte Society and search meetup. We have a list of 15 or 16 global meetup accounts. Obviously not all of them are active. So it's a little bit confusing as to which is active and how do you contact people who are still around and still interested and want to get that started again. The only thing I'll say is just DM us and we'll help you. Yeah, definitely. Yeah, so you're actually hosting a meetup today, I think, Anthony. That's correct. Yes, tonight. I mean, depending on when this goes out, it may be a past event, but yes, London's meetup. Basically, we try to do a bit more of a regular cadence to get predictability. So it happens around the end of each month now. And of course, all is available at meetup slash Svelte That nice Yeah I think that it Do you guys have any other things that we should talk about Yeah, this is an American requirement, but I think it's a good idea. Okay, I'll start with the politically correct one and then I'll give one more tip, which is typically you want to have some kind of code of conduct at your meetup. We do have a Svelte Society code of conduct. You can find it on the website as well as the, in general, the Svelte community has adopted one. Yeah. Is there a link that we can drop into the show notes? Absolutely. And I also just want to add that, like, if you want to use the Svelte Society name for a meetup, you absolutely have to accept this and it's non-negotiable. Okay, good. So, and then the other thing, So part of that is basically making sure that if there's any issues that happen during the meetup, people know who to go to. And so point them out. Sometimes having – and definitely having more than one person helps because you might be the problem. So making it safe and inclusive for everybody I think is very important for us. And look like – yeah, we always have problems with diversity and stuff like that. So we need to make sure that people don't get harassed when they come to Svelte Society events, and it has happened. So please take care of the human side and not just the code side. And I think this also applies online as well. If you're at a Svelte gathering online, say Svelte Summit, and someone harasses you, you should definitely send an email and tell us so we can deal with that. There's an email, so it's coc.sveltesociety.dev, which when you send emails there, it goes out to a number of people. so it's not just one person that will see it but we also we also make sure like like their rules to make sure that we don't share anything uh with anyone of course if if that's that's that's probably not something you want if you're sending off one of those so yeah i try to avoid okay so minor minor organizing tips this is

 Not as important as the Code of Conduct. Everyone has pizzas at meetups. I try to avoid it if I can. I've gotten taco catering before, and that seems pretty fun. People sort of build their own burrito, build their own tacos or whatever. Anything that's a little bit more healthy than pizzas, I think we would like to encourage healthier eating habits or just say take care of your own food. People will cure that. And then one more thing, which is, So I stole this from the TypeScript New York meetup, which is basically set the expectation of three talks, a beginner, an intermediate, and an advanced talk with the promise that, you know, basically there's something for everybody. Even if you already know Svelte or if you're new to Svelte, there's room for you here. You can explicitly invite people to bring their laptops and have some hack time. so in Svelte Society in the New York event like half the meetup time was just hack time where people just work on stuff and ask questions and bring their projects and show people and yeah I think it's fun maybe it's a bit awkward for people to get together but hopefully after a couple times meeting together it's just a nice group to share and learn together so yeah that's kind of the structure that I set up for New York yeah so I definitely agree with the the beginner intermediate advanced one as well and i think i think you sometimes you don't have to have a lot of talks you can just make it a hackathon style thing you can maybe have like an intro a short intro and then the intermediate and advanced stuff is more of like a you you just like group up a couple of people and then you build something like it doesn't have to be particularly structured. So, yeah. Play around with the format as well. It's a lot of fun if it's not the same thing every time. Cool. We're having burgers at the meetup tonight. That's pretty healthy. I don't know if that's healthier than pizza, but I'm not completely sure that taco is healthier than pizza either. Is there a bit of green on it? That's my answer. Oh, yeah. There's a bit of green on it, yeah. But then the pizzas have rocket on them, so, you know, who knows. Oh. Maybe you should get those burgers with you know instead of the bread it just a lettuce So it like low carb protein burgers I sure they do those I sure they do them They have also charcoal burgers activated charcoal burgers So the bun is black, which I think is just to look cool, to be honest. But, you know, yeah, I'll, you know, activated charcoal. I've heard you're not supposed to ingest it because it stops vitamins being absorbed. But what do I know? Who knows? I guess we'll see tomorrow if you're still alive. Oh, definitely alive. I'm just joking. all right um so we're at the the uh the most popular uh section of uh of the podcast the unpopular opinions what do you guys have for me ah let's see we're doing this so so so often nowadays so we we we don't have time to to get irritated or take do hot takes i believe you may Don't worry, Anthony always got you. Today I haven't actually. I've almost got Return to overload. I think I had one that got people mildly defensive. So that's going to have to pass right now. Essentially, basically, Remix guys have been on a daily warpath against Jamstack. And so, I think Ken C. Dodds tweeted about what are the benefits of static side generation over server-side rendering, which is very innocuous, but obviously they have an angle on it. And I was thinking through the evolution of all the static-side generators and the frameworks, and I realized that nobody does pure SSG today. Everyone at least has some serverless rendering story or incremental rendering or on-demand rendering, whatever you call it. So pure SSG died in 2020. That's my unpopular opinion. And then a bunch of people got defensive. They were like, my blog is still statically generated. And I'm like, yeah, I know, but your blog doesn't matter. The framework is all. That's like saying that COBOL is still alive because some bank is using it. Yeah. I mean, I've also gotten that religion and moved my sites to be generated on demand and cached. And surprise. is like now when I edit my sites, they build a lot faster because they don build all the pages at once Yeah Wow It it like it almost sense So yeah it not I think it not like a shocking revelation but it is a bit sobering to realize that even the most statically committed of the frameworks like Gatsby and Eleventy have all editor serverless options. I did not know that. Yeah. I think on the subject of tweets that rile people up and tweets that um that that are good for an popular opinion um i i mean it wasn't my opinion it was it was a guy called theo t3.gg i don't know i don't i've seen it sounds like a twitter name it's definitely a twitter name yeah but he posted a an example of a an if statement in uh in view and then react and then in svelte and the tweet was like the view one is is magic html or something the um the svelte one was magic magic strings or something like that and then the react one was javascript um to the point that react is just javascript but it's not jsx isn't javascript it never has been so my my my controversial opinion which is probably not a controversial at all really is that stop calling react just javascript because it's not. It's just JSX. And it's equally as magic as the other two. It's just not. We can't keep calling it just JavaScript because it's not. Yeah. Yeah. Well, it might be so popular that it might become JavaScript. Sure. They might build it in, but it isn't there now. So we can't go around saying it is. Maybe Svelte will become JavaScript. Who knows, right? Are you worried about it? No, I thought you said you're worried about it actually being incorporated. Sean, maybe I'm sorry. Yeah, I am worried about it. I don't think that we have found the best possible syntax. And so it might become some half-ass implementation, like the type-ass comments proposal that is going around right now, where it's like, okay, we can do part of your solution, so we have the idea of you so in other words we have the idea of TypeScript we have the idea of JSX or React but we not going to implement the full thing so now instead of having portable code or less code we just have another standard that is a half implemented standard that is ubiquitous because the people in charge of browsers decided. And no one's going to use it anyway, I guess. I think 3% of the web uses web components. Not small. It's only 3%? How many percent of the web do you think uses React? Oh, ooh, that's like 15? Eight. Eight, really? I'm kind of not surprised. Looked it up recently. WordPress is like 60%, right? Which is nuts. Yeah, WordPress is 40-something, 45, 46. Gains 1% to 3% market share every year. And then jQuery is about 70-something. I just did this. I've been preparing a talk, so all these numbers are pretty fresh in my mind. So yeah, it's not small. And once you build it into a platform, people are going to use it because it's built in. It's official. Do you mean building React in or building JSX in? Probably JSX is where they're going to start. But I think some form of this partial hydration streaming server-side rendering thing that React is doing should also make it into the browser. But yeah, JSX is the first one. And even JSX, there's all these debates about JSX v2 that have never been implemented or discussed in full by the React team. So before we formalize the current version of JSX, I would like us to revisit that decision from seven years ago and try to fix it before we make the final decision. Pretty old decision. Yeah. I think also it's a weird one to build in because if you look at JSX, it's great for building essentially DOMs and things like that. It's not as useful for Node, and it becomes a divergence. And the reason that I even use JavaScript is because it converges a lot. You've got Node on the back end, you've got JavaScript on the front end, which is essentially Node on the back end is essentially V8. It's the same thing theoretically. I know there's obviously differences. I think putting something front-end specific or DOM specific in there is really taking that away. And you just end up with a confusing mess of two things that look similar that are not the same. All right. So my unpopular opinion.

 I'm actually going to, this is actually a hot take. Okay. So my, it doesn't have anything to do with programming or software development. So my hot take is that Bitcoin proof of work is actually good for the environment. And I'm going to tell you why. so bitcoin subsidizes the build out of renewable energy and sets a minimum price that producers of energy can sell their energy for so it's it kind of sets a baseline for like so yeah so it's up basically subsidizes the build-out of energy sources. And it's very nice to have Bitcoin miners on your energy grid because they can instantly turn off, which a lot of other industries can't. They often have to ramp up or it takes a while for them to turn off. So, for example, you guys probably remember the Texas ERCOT situation a couple of years ago. with the snowstorms. So there's a report somewhere floating around the web that explains this pretty well, which I'd suggest people read. Rather than just think that, oh, it uses energy, therefore it must be bad, read that report first and then come to a conclusion after that, I'd say. There we go. That is controversial. That is a hot topic. I know, right? I do wonder about these poor countries where the power is cheap. I wonder how much they're pushing the renewable energy agenda when they're just building Bitcoin mining farms. I'm just not sure those two correlate in that way. I think they will. So I think the idea is that power producers are also going to be Bitcoin miners because that kind of makes sense because you can put your miners anywhere, right? So while you're building out your solar farms and they're not connected to the grid, you can just stick some miners there and subsidize the cost of building. And then when you done with that solar farm you just move on to the next one and rinse and repeat pretty much so so just just to bring up a recent news article that at least two i believe definitely one but maybe at least two i think now disused coal power stations in these countries have been reactivated just to build bitcoin mining mining farms i'm struggling to see the connection between renewable energy and that Well, I mean, one bad apple doesn't make the whole bunch bad, right? Or what's the saying? One very bad apple. Well, I mean, the problem there is more like maybe you should regulate the opening of old coal plants. Maybe that shouldn't be a thing. That isn't happening. I know that doesn't mean it's a problem for Bitcoin. like bitcoin still like even even if you start a couple of of coal plants um it's still massively outweighed by the the increase in power generation by by the building of new solar farms powered or subsidized by bitcoin miners that's my hot take i'll read the paper and yeah i'll be yeah i'll be intrigued by it be skeptical and uh and uh oh i'm already skeptical but yeah so that's uh that's my that's my unpopular opinion and i'm gonna drop the the the link to the papers as well sounds good all right picks uh oh i had one but i've lost it i don't have one i haven't come up with anything in in days i've i've tried just won't work definitely it's definitely out of picks yeah i'm out of picks um travid i have i have a very very short one uh which is recently i um i uh switched computers because i no longer have a computer. And I went back to my old non-M1 MacBook. And well, first of all, yeah, it is very slow. The battery is very short. Like you would just miss everything about the M1 life. Anyway, so I was installing YouTube DL because I really wanted to grab one of my talks from React Miami. And to do that, you have to brew install. And then because it was an old laptop that had not touched in three years it was like do you want to upgrade No it doesn even ask you It just Brew install YouTube DL and it just upgrades every app you ever installed So cause that the default behavior That took a while eh Yeah. So, so it took like half an hour and like my, my, the fans all started spinning up because it's not an M1 machine. Anyway. So my pick is this environment variable you can set called homebrew no auto update which sounds like Japanese when I was reading it. I was like homebrew no auto update. And so that turns off this stupid default behavior. So my pick is actually that you should just put this in your bash as an alias. In my ZSHRC I put it as an alias. So now whenever I type brew that's always there. what if you actually want to upgrade then you turn it off remove it I just never want to upgrade there's a separate command to upgrade I don't know what it is because I never run it because every time I run BrewInstall it just doesn't yeah if I could unpick I would unpick Brew because I don't like it there's apparently alternatives so Johannes Schickling the co-founder of Prisma appointed me to Nix which has constantly been on my radar and everyone smart that I know has at least checked it out or uses it which means probably in one to two years I'll be using it. But yeah, if Nix starts replacing Brew then you'll hear from me. Yeah, I mean I'm not saying that you don't need packet management. I think that if it works on Mac and Kibs it, that's true but my point is that it should be built into the operating system and I can't believe in this day and age that it's not. like they should have picked one and built it in by now because i i can't imagine using an operating system that hasn't got native package management it doesn't make sense to me like going to websites hoping you hit the right one hopefully not a sponsored link that's got some trojan or something in it downloading a thing running a random install having a bizarre new ui to deal with your machine is just beyond me like you know package management apps install done like it's the only way i can imagine installing software in fact i get annoyed when i have to go to website like to get Google Chrome, for example, I have to get a website and it annoys me. Yeah. I kind of like the idea of having like putting your like an sh file on like in a gist on GitHub and then just downloading that and having that install everything for you when you Yeah you got to maintain it though Yeah, that's the problem. I've never managed to do that. Every time I change computers, I just save it. I update that gist. So I do have that gist. I'll put it in the show notes. And yeah, I have a script that I follow every time I set up a new machine, and that's part of it. Nice, nice. All right, Anthony, so what was your pick? You don't have one? I thought I did, but I don't. I can go first. Yeah, you should go. Yeah, so I'm going to pick Castopod, which is a self-hosting solution for podcasts. I haven't tried it yet, so maybe it's a premature pick that I should have saved for another time. But yeah, it lets you host podcasts more easily. without paying someone money, which is always nice. I actually, the other day, I was thinking about maybe it'd be nice to build something like Podcast Kit to just have, because there's really no, so this is the only solution really for self-hosting that's somewhat sane for a developer at least. I think having something that makes it super simple for people to host podcasts would be great without having to pay for them. I'm sure there are free solutions like Anchor, I think, is free, right? Anchor sucks, don't use it. Spotify's trying to close around the free podcast ecosystem, screw them. And the podcast player sucks. I agree. Maybe that's another good pick. An actual podcast player. That doesn't... What do you guys use? That uses RSS. I use Overcast. I'm not 100% happy with it, but it's good enough. Yeah, I use Pocket Cast. Yeah, I like Android ecosystem. It's really good. Yeah, it lets you... So trim silences, which is super nice. Everyone does that. Yeah, maybe. I guess I just started using it so early that no one else had the feature. So I think I've used it for like 10 years or something. It feels like it at least. Do you listen to podcasts, Anthony? I do now and then, but not as a sort of...

 regular thing i don't have a regular one to listen to right i also i think i really enjoy podcasts that aren't about tech i think i might have tech overload uh and so i think that i like listening to podcasts about you know true crime or podcasts about sort of um you know business like approaching tech like what's that one about you know i think scott talinsky recommended or something about tech startups and how they became what they are but things like that are interesting i think that I'm not the typical podcast listener. Yeah. Yeah. That makes sense. What kind of, what program do you use for? Honestly, I've been using Spotify, but now I know I shan't. I know. Terrible. I know. It's just there. It's like click. I think that would, that's actually something that probably, I think that you would actually be very against using Spotify after hearing this. I certainly am. It's your most normie pick. This guy's like Linux, like Raspberry Pi, and Spotify. Yeah, it's true. I think that's it for us. Oh wow, we've been recording for almost an hour. I thought this was going to be a short one. All right, I guess I'll see you guys next week. Goodbye everyone. Goodbye, see you next week. See you. Bye. Bye.