 welcome to svelte radio we're back it's svelte radio i was almost gonna say svelte summit but that's not it right this is svelte radio too much svelte summit on the brain yeah too little svelte radio it's uh yeah it's been a while right but we're back again after a short break once again or a hiatus uh whatever you want to call it um yeah so today we're we're the we're the just three people. Antony is not here for reasons. So it's me, as usual, Kevin. Good reasons. Good reasons. Very good reasons. Absolutely. I'm joined by, you've already heard them, Brittany and Sean. Hello. Yay. Hey. And today we're going to talk about the Svelte documentary. Have you guys seen it? I have. Were you guys in it? We're all in it. Yeah, we were. That's That's right. Oh, we should have worn the swag t-shirts. Oh, yeah. I wore mine for the AMA right before that. It was really an awesome swag shirt. And the hoodie. I'm excited. Yeah, it was good. It was really nice. I liked it. I love all the Easter eggs in it. Did you catch all the Easter eggs in the shirt? No. What Easter eggs? There was like a fox, right? That's conduitry? There's a fox for conduitry. There's an article that I posted the other day. The Svelts Sirens logo comes off the side of it. Oh, wow. Really? There's JavaScript and TypeScript in there. There's like a couple of things. I've got to find the article. Yeah, we should post that in the show notes. But yeah, so what was the documentary about? Anyone want to give us some summary? Yeah sure So most of it was Rich talking about like how Svelte got started and kind of the history behind it why he created it and the origin of the name and why it came to be And then the end of it was more about the community side of it Yeah. Yeah, it was really good. So for those of you who haven't seen programming language documentaries before, I guess the concept is kind of funny and weird in a quirky kind of way. I kind of like it. What did you call it? It's funny and weird and also quirky, like the programming documentary thing. Oh, yeah. It's not something you'd expect to exist, right? Like, oh, the Vue.js documentary or the Svelte documentary or the Python. So it's made by the same people that made the Vue.js one, right? And a bunch of other documentaries. Yes, and there's a Laravel one? Yeah. Yeah. I actually want to see that one because the layer bells has a little part in it and then they did like side documentaries. So that's something that they're actually going to do for ours too, is that they're going to make these little side pieces for each section of the Svelte community. So Svelte Sirens will have one and Svelte Society will have one. Oh, wow. I had no idea. Yeah. Yeah, I didn't know that either. That's awesome. That's great. Yeah. Yeah, so it's basically like a 30-minute documentary. Like the production value is off the charts. It's really nice. They flew out. They actually flew all over the world pretty much to talk to people. I think the only thing that someone mentioned that was missing was Li Hao, probably. Yeah, I did see that comment too. Yeah. But it's probably impossible to catch all of them. It's impossible to include everyone. And then they recorded a lot of people that didn't get included also. So it's just, there's so much to put in and it depends on how the story ends up playing out. And for this one, it was about the creation of spell. And so Rich played a huge part in that. And then adding in TypeScript support. And so order came in and it's just different the way the story played. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah It like I think they recorded so I was telling Sean before we started recording that I think they recorded here for two or three hours when they came over here Wow And then it was cut down to like 30 seconds or something But I imagine they do that for as many as possible right So they have enough material to work with to make it coherent. Did they record you in the morning, Sean, before the watch party? No, no. I actually did after. So while you guys were at the after party, I was staying behind to do the recording. Yeah, that's right, because you came late to the after party. Yeah, that's what's interesting is I think the people that got to do it in their own space probably got a lot more time and it was calm. But like Sean had to stay after we cleaned up in the after party and I had to do it while the party was going on behind me, like the watch party was happening. It was loud. And then they recorded me in the sunlight and the light changed by the time it ended. And so they made me redo it all in a different light. Oh, no. Wow. oh that's terrible and then i was in it for like 10 seconds i think this is one of those things where like if you care about the production quality like that's the the extremes that you have to do and then it is yeah us as casual viewers that don't really think about the work like you only imagine that people said the things that they said on screen and that's it but actually there were probably lots of takes yeah yeah yeah it was a cool experience though i've never been in in something like that before same being interviewed it's a weird thing as well for me i've been interviewed in like this setting but i think it was different with like the camera in your face and having like people around you and i don't know i wasn't very prepared for it because i didn't know what to expect and so that was a thing and just nerves in general yeah very nice uh people as well the oh they're very very nice yeah i really liked it yeah so you you all should go uh watch it of course i'm sure the people that listen to svelte radio probably already watched it but you should watch it again because it's nice. Did Rich answer the question about what he's eating in the Twitter profile? Oh, he did not. But that got answered at some other point. And so I didn't ask him that. I also had a Bluetooth malfunction. My earpiece stopped letting me hear Rich I could hear Stefan when he came in but I could not hear Rich talk at all which was awful so i had to i was i made it like 25 minutes i think of the 40 so in his thing isn he eating a pizza roll didn't you ask that it it is a pizza roll yeah but it always comes up and there's always like a controversy about what it is people think it's like a an ice cream cone and others i I did. I thought it was an ice cream cone. It looks like an ice cream cone. There's actually like a pizza roll place that's opened up right here. I'm thinking about maybe going and just redoing the exact same pose with a pizza roll and using that as my Twitter. Is it pizza with a crust and everything just rolled into a cone shape? I've never had one. I don't know. Have you had one, Sean? I don't understand either. Are you okay, Sean? No. Are you alive? No. No. Yes. I was on mute. No, I haven't seen it. But I think he calls it a pizza cone. That's what he answered on Twitter recently. I don't know. Okay. It's just rolled up. Yeah. Before the Q&A starts. Just for the New York City Salt Summit meetups. I was just so tired of having pizzas at every single meetup. So pizzas were the one thing I banned. No more pizzas. I think that makes sense. Yeah. It is such a convenient thing to have at meetups though, right? It is. It's so easy because you can serve more people. Yeah. Yeah. But yeah, it's not very healthy and it's nice with variety as well. We were concerned before the Q&A. I don't know if y'all saw that like Gashirmo was supposed to join and then Sean and Scott were supposed to join and they were traveling and it was like chaotic to like, get what we thought was going to happen down to just me and rich and then we were like do we have enough questions and we ended up having like 20 questions and i got through maybe half of them like it's just there's too many questions yeah it usually takes a bit longer than you expect yeah for sure especially if you have someone like rich on they can like he can expand on on questions on answers very well i said i'll make sure that i give my long-winded answers. Yeah. So, from one thing to another, when do you guys think we're getting SvelteKit 1.0?

 he said a few months in the Q&A. You know what's happening in a few months, right? Yes, it's spelt Summit. Yes, exactly, exactly. So maybe we can line that up. He's like, I do not give you a date. No pressure, no pressure, Rich. You can't pry a date out of that man. Yeah, kind of makes sense. I think it's just always chinky. What? I did not know that. Wasn't his fiancée in the documentary? Oh, it did say fiancé on there. Was that the announcement? I think he announced it. Yeah, maybe he announced it a little bit earlier, but whatever. Still, it's good for him. It's awesome. Congrats to him. Yeah, so Svelte Summit, September. We have like 70 CFPs submitted that I need to go through this weekend. That's a lot. I'm trying to get you more just to give you more stress. The more the merrier. The more the merrier. it's going to be a oh i just got one another one as we're talking as we're talking yeah yeah yeah so svelte summit is happening in september if you didn't know and it's going to be awesome we have two days of svelte talks and uh hanging out after parties it's going to be it's going to be very fun and i very much look forward to meeting everyone i also if you come to the london meetup next month in july there might be some discount tickets if anyone's interested oh yeah i mean we might as well tell people yeah if anyone's in the uk um i'm gonna be at the london meetup on july 20th penguin's gonna be there kevin's gonna kevin's you're gonna be there right Yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Who else do we know? Oh, Anthony, probably. Of course. Yeah. Since meetup, so. Yeah, yeah. Willow will probably be there. Willow will probably be there. Yeah. Ghost. Who else? There are probably a bunch of people that we. Scott Spence. Scott Spence, yeah. Yeah. He'll be there. I wish I could join. He's also an organizer. Yeah. Well, it's just a flight away, right? It's just a flight away. And I'm going to be just coming back from Portland. So I would like be coming on a red eye from Portland and then get on another flight to London. Easy. Just fly the other way Faster like the other way around the globe Speaking of those like Stockholm is right before Stelt Summit is right before all hands in Hawaii So I'm going to be flying from Stockholm all the way to Hawaii in September. So I don't need any more like back-to-back trips to plan right now. Maybe you just need some, what's it called? Maybe you just need to train for the upcoming back-to-back flights with another back-to-back flight. I'm just going to have to plan like the time and either knock myself out or keep myself awake, like one or the other on the flight. It's going to be tough for you. I think that the thought of going to Hawaii is going to keep you going. It will. It is incredible there. So, yeah, I did a similar thing for New York. I flew in and out of New York for the watch party in 18 hours. So I was in in the morning and then out late that night. That's pretty rough. I really... I was really glad that you made it. No, I feel like I made it. Like, yeah, made it all the more fun. And also made it convenient to record you in the documentary. I did, yes. I may not have made it at all if that didn't happen, so. Right, yeah. Yeah, it's, oh, isn't it nice going to conferences? So I was just at JSConf in Budapest, and I really missed, like, conferences. especially especially the hallway track it's the best track the hallway track yeah the track where you kind of don't go to the talks you catch the talks after and you just hang out with all other attendees i'm sure that's really what happens a lot at those things oh yeah networking for sure for sure but like it's it's it's also the thing that like it's a lot of fun and so i i've thought about this for Svelte Summit. And it's something also that our MC mentioned as well. So we've got an MC for Svelte Summit, Tejas Kumar. Super awesome guy. And we talked about this a bit. The JSConf Budapest people, they made the coffee breaks one hour long. Which is pretty long, but it made the conference better I think because you had more time to like talk to people and get to know each other you know because you don you don have time to talk to people in like 10 minutes right yeah your conversations get cut off exactly exactly so one hour is nice and then lunch is like two hours Oh nice Yeah so I planning on doing something like that Yeah. I've had some major FOMO looking at the people that have been going out to like Render Atlanta and the Miami React conferences that were happening, and I'm excited because I know that they're coming in the fall, but I can't wait. I wanted to go to the React one, even though I don't use React. I know, all the people. To meet people and hang out with people. Right. You were there, right, Sean? At the, what was it called? React Nation? React, no? Reactathon? The one that was in Miami. Reactathon, yeah, yeah, yeah. Oh, yeah. Was it nice? Yeah, it's pretty good. It's pretty good. Really, I mean, React is so big, so you just get to see most of the web dev people there. Right, yeah. It's the first time in person for a long time. Yeah. Was it as good as you remembered it? I think everyone's a bit awkward with COVID and stuff, but I think it's still pretty good. I don't know. It's so weird because it feels like so long ago, and I've had a lot of work stuff happen in the meantime. So the conference is just a holiday rather than something I think about constantly. That makes sense. And you liked Miami so much. Yeah. Yeah. That you decided to move there. I'm giving it a trial is basically what I'm thinking about. And I mean, like, it's basically the Singapore of the U.S. Like, it's warm. It's casual. It's good food. Good weather. Sometimes. Only sometimes? What is the weather like? Is it like a tropical? It's warm. Oh, yeah, it is. I guess it's like Singapore or maybe not, not as rainy. Miami is very hot. Very, very hot. Well, so like, you know, I grew up on the equator, so it's less hot than Singapore, but yeah. I guess that's true. And it's on the ocean. So you get some of the breeze, right? Yeah, exactly. So, I mean, I just like going out and about shorts and flip-flops. Like it's, it's a more casual dress down place. I feel like, but we'll see I think it's very much going to be dependent on people dependent on where I end up staying so it really something I trying to figure out Cool Nice Yeah. So for Svelte Summit, are we going to do a live Svelte Radio episode? Oh, that would be nice. Does that make sense? That could be fun, right? That would be fun. And I hope we're going to do a Svelte Sirens workshop too. Like I want to do like a whole little workshop thing for Svelte Sirens. Absolutely. Absolutely. Just let me know. I guess I should book that workshop room for you, right? Yeah. Yeah, for sure. I'm talking with Willow and we're trying to figure logistics out and what we're going to do. But yeah, I would love to do that. Great. I'll sort it out. Yeah. And there's also another secret thing that is happening at Svelte Summit that even you two don't know about. Oh, kind of fun. Yeah, we're running a a thing that starts on July 1st. I saw the hint for this. And I'm not going to tell. Oh, come on. I'm not going to drop any hints. So, yeah, look forward to July 1st. It's going to be very exciting. We'll keep an ear out. That's my pitch for July 1st. Yeah, I don't know. Is that us? It's a pretty short one, but do you guys want to talk about anything else? Are we going to talk about the other thing in the discussion topics? Because JS Nation happened. Oh, right. Yeah. Yeah, let's do it. So JS Nation was like a week ago as of recording. And Rich came out with the learn.svelte.dev that he's been working on a little behind the scenes, which is exciting. I have a new tutorial site. And they partnered with Stackplets for that, which is really cool. Yeah. So it's like the Svelte tutorial, but on steroids. and you can do backend stuff pretty much. Yeah. It's like actual SvelteKit running in the browser. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. That's pretty nice. Andy, did you guys see the sea shanty? I did. What? Where? So Rich started off to talk by singing a sea shanty. And it's got Matt Bellman's face like in the middle of it. It's so great. I tweeted it the other day. I need to find the video of this. It was good. It was good. It was like a C-Shan with web dev stuff. Did you find it? I'm working on it. I'm working on it. Yeah, I'm working too. There's so much going on right now.

 I feel like the performance game is going up now Yep, yep People probably have all of these pent up ideas that they want to do live Good, good I guess we'll link it in the show notes because I can't find it Same Oh, I think I found it Oh, I found it Nice Sea shanties Sea shanties are pretty fun I like them And it's like the lyrics are all Web dev stuff and like Cloud hosting Shenanigans and all of that weird Fun It's really nice Okay cool I was listening to part of it Is that where you're Bouncing around I'm bouncing one day when the javascript runs oh you want to you want to do it no i do not because i don't know the words but oh right that that's your little clip yeah yeah i guess we we have talked about the topics and we move on to uh our blank popular opinions yeah our blank space do you guys have any unpopular opinions probably many but you don't oh i have a really bad joke since we were talking about conferences today that i heard and i don't remember where i heard it but the new conference swag do you know what the new conference swag is no what covid yeah that might have been like one of the worst jokes i heard in the good while I like heard it and I was like wow that really awful But then I like chuckled because it so true Like so many people are coming back with COVID from conferences. It's really unfortunate. It is. But it seems like it's getting less and less dangerous, like with all of these new variants. Fingers crossed, of course. Yes, fingers crossed. You never know. Still don't want to get it, right? Exactly. I don't know. Yeah. No unpopular opinions. I don't have one either today. Pics. I have lots of pics. Awesome. I remember having a pic, but now I just like, now I'm just blanking. Our pics are go and watch the Svelte documentary. Go read about the Easter eggs in the swag. In the swag. Well, we first kind of need to find a picture of the t-shirt, right? Oh, I have the link right there. Oh, nice. I can draw the picture too. Yeah. Okay, well, I guess I'll offer a pick. One, I do quite some work with Docker and Docker Compose these days. And the one thing I hate about Docker is Docker Desktop, which is very slow. So I've figured out that you can use Kolyma and the Docker Compose binary to replace Docker. because Docker, the company, really wants you to run Docker desktop so they can upsell you. So the only way, they don't give you any other option to run the Docker binary. So Kolima is a drop-in replacement for the Docker binary, and it's working great. It starts up very quickly, doesn't get in my way with the UI, and does everything that I want it to do. So I really recommend it That sounds like a really good pick because Because just today I was fighting Docker Desktop So that great I feel fortunate that I've never had to deal with Docker. Oh, yeah. That does sound very nice. Yeah. I think the future is JavaScript containers, is what Ryan Dahl calls it. So Dino just raised their Series A. I actually had a privilege of chatting with Ryan because he wanted to get some thoughts from me. And I mean, I think it's potentially the future for JavaScript, but I don't think that it's going to take over all of programming. It's just going to take over JavaScript programming, which is still pretty big. So you mean Dino? Yes. Or just, right, yeah. Yeah. Yeah, why not? I think Dino is kind of the future of the server side languages. It's just using those web browser standards. So you have like a little closer to like what the browser actually uses because of that. Right. Yeah. Yeah. I guess that's the big difference. All right. My pick is a flip. I don't know if I've picked this before. I don't think so. but a flip is a cocktail that is made out of a whole egg a whole raw egg and uh cognac some some uh coffee liqueur i think i mean you can do a bunch of different these and then you like uh and you put some nutmeg on top oh it very good i had one yesterday i actually got three You had me at the raw egg I was just like out Why I don know It just gross I think you should try one when you go here. I know a place. I do have another gross thing that I guess will be my pick because it is one of my favorite summer things. I love tomato sandwiches in summer, tomato, mayonnaise, and bread. But this other thing has grossed several people out recently. And it's bread. On one side, you do peanut butter. On one side, you do mayonnaise. And in the middle, I do bananas. Wait, is this the thing that's going around on Twitter? Well, the peanut butter and mayo sandwich is the thing that's going around on Twitter. But I said this on Remotely Interesting one day, and Jason freaked out. He's like, I hate this thing so much, and shared the Twitter post that's like the peanut butter and mayo sandwich. But I like it with bananas in the middle. And the peanut butter makes your mouth sticky. The mayonnaise cuts that. And so you don't really taste the mayonnaise, but it's a textured thing. It just doesn't sound good. Can we have this at the summit? Yes. We'll just pass it around as dessert. It does. It tastes like dessert. It's so good. Yeah, kind of like the cocktail that it was. It's like drinking a dessert. It does sound good, other than the raw egg. I just don't know. Do you need the raw egg? Oh, yeah, for sure. Definitely. It's the key component. Yeah, for sure. All right. I think that's us. Unless you guys have other picks. Do you want to? No? Just one pick today? That kind of makes sense. We usually just do one. All right. So this has been the Svelte Radio episode. And yeah, we'll catch you all next time. Bye-bye. Bye-bye.