 Hey friends! Let's talk about the last icon library you're going to ever need, which is Iconify. So Iconify gives you all the popular icon sets in one framework, which it claims it has over 100,000 open source vector icons, which is amazing. So there's two ways to use Iconify. We can use the web component, which is encouraged, so it works with every UI framework you can imagine, or you can use the alternative native components, but I think this is starting to get deprecated, so use the webcam community which i'm going to show you how and it's really awesome so let's look at some of the icons so you can see all the icon packs are here you can sort general animated emojis for example if you need brands you can see svg logos core ui brands font awesome brands and etc if you need flags for example let's see the round boy circle flags you can just search for your favorite flag you can select it and you can even customize it which is even more awesome so you can set the size you can flip it rotate it you can even set the colors for other icons let's go back just see if i go here show available icon sets one of my favorite is lucid i think which is a fork of feather icon So let me just say Lucid And yeah that it So we can search for it or you can go to their page whichever you prefer And here I just have a simple button which looks boring and it would look way awesome with an icon. So we can go here and let's search for trash. And we can pick the trash can. And now we can change the colors if you want, flip it and etc. and here it shows you how you can use it. So you can select web component, HTML. If you for example select Svelte, now it's going to give you steps how to use the component, but we're going to use the web component. But before that, let me just show you how to set it up because their site is a bit confusing, honestly. It should be just a couple of lines of text, like this is really hard to navigate. But how you do it is you just click on this web component, then it leads you to the next page you can see how you can use web components and web components are really awesome because that's the promise instead of having a separate library for every framework something specific to that framework web components just work the same across the board which is really awesome so if you have for example a date picker you can make one awesome date picker or emoji picker that works the same across every frameworks and web components are really awesome for that reason so let see what does it say why don use a font register your web components so you have to install let me just see here so you have to do in my case pnpm i and you can say a codify icon and that's basically it i'm just going to start the server again or you can use a script but just install it using npm and i just need to import it so you can say import iconify icon and also one thing worth noting is that web components are great for ssr and i think it even mentions it somewhere here so here it shows you what attributes you can change and how if you want to have a look i'm going to have the link in the description let me just see not here their page ssr hydration one of the issues webcomponent solve is hydration, which is used by many modern UI frameworks. So explains hydration, and the issues with hydration using icons, they might have unique ideas, so it doesn't know what icon to return, etc. But in case of webcomponents, I think it's just a blank placeholder, so this tells you Shadow DOM used by webcomponent solves hydration problems. When a UI framework renders icons on the server it only renders that iconify icon element And during the hydration process whatever your framework only checks the iconify icon element but not the actual icon So this means server side can generate only the whatever icon reducing document size. And yeah, you can read this if you want, but works without a problem. So now that we have that set up, let me see. Here we pick the icon right, and I can just copy it over. So if I go here and just paste it everything should work awesome so now let's just adjust it so you can go to style button you can say display flex and you're going to need to align the item center like this because if i don't do this it's going to not be aligned yeah and then you can just add a gap to ram if you want and it looks beautiful all right friends so give iconify a try and if you like what you see don't forget to like and subscribe and if you want you can become a youtube channel member or find my patreon in the description. Thank you for watching and catch you in the next one. Peace!