 Yo friends, what's up? So Swell the other day released a new amazing feature, which is Error Boundaries. And basically the TLDR is when a part of your app shits itself, it doesn't have to take the entire thing down. So we can provide a fallback, for example. And this is actually a part of Advent of Swell. So this year, instead of having challenges, the Swell team is releasing a new feature until Christmas. So far we got Error Boundaries on day one, day two, we got each without S, so you can iterate over items, no problem. And then now you can also export snippets. and don't worry if you're not following this i'm going to give you a full report once the advent of svelte is over and another awesome thing you can participate in is last year's advent of svelte challenges which are really awesome so here is a bunch of challenges you could try this year using runes right so it's going to be really fun i think you have 24 challenges which is really awesome these are beautifully well crafted challenges that you can try to challenge yourself so you can do that if you want. But basically, if you're familiar with SwellKit, I released a video a while ago on SwellKit routing, and basically SwellKit had this feature kind of for routes. So for example, if you have this sidebar, header, and the block section, if the block section explodes, for example, it's not going to take your entire app down. So SwellKit already has this concept, and that is the beauty of nested routes. So when a nested route in SwellKit shits itself, it doesn't have to take the entire thing down. And now you can take this concept and apply it to components. And this feature is more impactful than you think because now that you have error boundaries, now you can have things in Svelte like suspense, async data loading, and etc. So you can expect some great things from Svelte in the near future. Alright, but enough yapping, let's get into error boundaries. But first, here's a message from our sponsor. I'd like to thank this video's sponsor, you, the viewer. You can support the channel through Patreon or a YouTube channel membership. Members get early access to videos help shape the content and a special Discord role You can find all of the links in the description Thank you for your support Alright here I have a simple mouse coordinates component. We're just tracking the coordinates of the mouse, but let's say for example that on accident this mouse value gets set to 0, so now when we try to assign the x or y value it's going to throw an error. And inside of plus page.svelte is where I'm importing the mouse coordinates component. So let's look at our app. As we can see it works as expected, and now when we click on this button is going to throw an error and as we can see now our app itself and we can do anything right we can click on this however much we want the only course of action left to us is to reload this page but thankfully we can use error boundaries so we want to catch the error right the first thing that we can do we can just say swell boundary and we can place the component that we want to catch any errors of inside of here all right so now we can save this but we're going to see nothing is going to happen so everything works but now we go boom and we're going to see we're not going to catch anything and the reason for this is that you have to pass one of these two things to swell boundary for it to work you either have to pass an on error or failed function so for example we can say on error so what you want to happen when you catch the error so you can now get the error you can send it to whatever you want some service or whatever as they say in the docs and you can even make this even shorter we can just say console log and now we're going to see let's refresh the page and now when we go boom we're actually going to catch the error and by default what happens is the content gets replaced by nothing so the next thing we can do is actually provide a fallback and we can do that using a snippet so i can go here and i have a snippet for my snippet so we can say failed so now we can go here and we can pass this snippet here as an argument refresh let go boom and now we going to see we get a fallback but of course we don have to do this we can just use a snippet inside of here and now it going to become a prop so you don have to do this anymore but wait there's more you can also get the error from fail so now we can for example say error dot message let's go back here so now when everything goes boom you're going to get the error here and another thing you can do is you can use a reset function given by the failed function so you can for example take reset let's create a button i can say reset and then let's just say on click reset thank you all right so now if i save this you're going to actually see let me just refresh for good measure now when it goes boom and when i click reset swelter is actually going to recreate the content and now you can see everything works the same as before and if you're using typescript to type this as you can see for the types if you go back here to failed we can see see this is a snippet so error is unknown and reset is just a function so i don't think there is really any type that you can import but you can just type it like this so this can be avoid and a problem with this if we say unknown it's still going to complain so you can just use any and what's also interesting let's just console der error and i'm also going to remove this on error because it's annoying me all right so now i'm going to reload this let's go boom and now we're going to log this object this is really interesting on it there is this thing component stack the message and the stack so i'm actually not sure why this isn't just typed because you actually know in advance what these things are but i don't know maybe this is something they update in the future right but yeah that's how simple it is to provide a fallback what's also interesting is that if you throw an error back is going to be caught by another boundary higher up so let's actually look at this example. So we can say on error, we're going to get E, right? So we have error code. Let me refresh We going to see error code Now let say for example that an error froze here for some reason so you can just go back here and let say row e and i just going to create another boundary and here we're going to say say error caught all right and also this is complaining so let's just do this all right so basically in this error boundary if it froze again is going to be caught by a boundary higher up so we should see this message error caught right let's go back here i'm going to reload and now everything works let's go boom and we're going to see the error is going to be caught all right there is one thing that i want to show you and that is how you can use on error and reset outside the error boundary so they have a wonderful example here in fact i'm just going to copy it so just copy it and let's just paste it in let's just say mouse coordinates so here we can define our own on error function so we can type the error we can just say error in this case and this is going to be our function nothing special all right so we can set the error outside the error boundary and we can have our reset function here so we can just update it and because event handlers are just regular props we can just do this which is really beautiful so we can just say on error here and now And now we can just check, hey, if there's an error, we can handle it outside the error boundary. So here we have a button with an onClick method. We're going to set the error to null, and then we're going to reset it so it recreates the content. All right, so now if I go to our example, refer for good measure, now we're going to see everything works fine the same as before. But now if we go boom, we're going to see, oops, try again. And now let's do that, and we're going to see everything works the same as before. That's it. That's everything you have to know about Svelte error boundaries. always, I'm going to put all of the links in the description. If you like what you've seen, don't forget to like and subscribe and I'll catch you in the next one. Peace!