 Hey friends, what's up? I thought that this would be a fitting end of the year video and I want to bring attention to this awesome site. As you can see here, this image of rich hair is flying by, always gets me. So I wanted to try out Advent of Svelte to sharpen your Svelte and JavaScript skills. So if you aren't familiar with the Advent challenges, you have a bunch of them. So for example, you have the main one, Advent of Code, which probably has some of the hardest challenges if you want to challenge yourself. so you can use any language right here. And then there's also Advent of TypeScript if you want to challenge your TypeScript skills. So I'm going to put all of these links in the description if you want to check it out. But in this case, let's talk about Advent of Swell, which is really beautifully made and the challenges are so wonderful. So if you look at the first challenge, Not Your Nice, you're going to first get this description. You're going to get the data you need. Sometimes if there's an API endpoint, it's also going to be included. And you don't even need an editor. you can open the example in SvelteLab, which is really a wonderful development environment for Svelte and SvelteKit. If you just want to do this on your laptop or phone, whatever, right, you can do this very easily using SvelteLab. And of course, you can share your solution on Discord, but more awesome, you can use Discord to learn a bunch. All right, so if I go to the Discord, don't forget that you can also join the Joy of Code Discord if you want, but in this case, I'm going to go to the Svelte Discord, and then you can go to the Advent of Svelte channel. And now if you look here at the pinned messages at the top, you can see all of these solutions or code challenges are here So you can go to the first one and you can look at these wonderful examples by the community what creative things they came up with right so you can learn a lot for example i learned about the new javascript group by feature which i heard a couple of times in the past but i quickly forgot about it right but it's really something awesome you're going to find by looking at all of these code examples that people are sharing and of course feel free to share your own solution and there's a bunch of cool things in here so for example snowflake silhouettes you're also going to get resources you can research so in this tutorial you're going to get linked to this tutorial so you can actually learn how to use svgs to generate a snowflake right and then you can go back to the swell challenge and you can see what you have to do here and this is really a ton of fun but yeah i highly encourage you to visit that but i also want to share with you what libraries you can also use for these challenges so something new you can learn along the way so let's look at some of those libraries so for example so you don't have to reinvent your ui from scratch so melt ui is a beautiful lower level component library you can use to make your own design system so you can see all of these components are basically headless so there are some styles of course if you're using tailwind right but you don't even have to use tailwind when it comes to melt ui but if you are using tailwind there is something like shad cn or svelte so you can look at all of these beautiful components here if you look at things like forms or authentication here is this music example playground so you can look how all of these components here come out great and then you can try some other things like Svelte UX which is also tailing based so you get these components like avatar button and etc but you also get some awesome things like let me just see you have models state and etc but you also have some things like this tilt component so you can maybe use this in some challenge you see when i hover over the card it has this awesome tilt effect and then you have some other things like the shine effect so you can also use this on the card so it's like the shiny foil card effect so you can hover over the card you can see how beautiful this looks like and also like this GUI effect which is using SVGs so you can get this sort of effect how beautiful is this friends and of course you can just use Daisy UI which is framework agnostic so you really don't get the logic for cell components but it's really well made this beautiful side so you can avoid writing all of these tailwind classes right if you use Daisy UI this gets replaced just by two classes in this button example another thing I want you to check out is super forms for swellkit so cell kit already makes working with forms easier but super forms takes it to another level so check out this library for the challenges it's really awesome and it's going to serve you outside of the challenges and you're going to have some challenges where they ask you to make some charts and etc if you want the thing so you can use this layer chart library which makes it really easy so you can see here you can even animate this into tween store You get area, you get your bar charts, vertical and horizontal. Where is this fun one here? I remember playing with animated globe. You can animate the globe. Let find good old Croatia Awesome This is just going to move the globe and this is really a beautiful library and the last thing i want to bring attention to is using the motion store from self so you can use the tween and spring store from svelte which not a lot of people know about so i want to bring extra attention to it so you can use this simple but powerful animations to polish up your code challenges so if i solve this example you can see here actually let me just reset it so you can see here first this is just whatever but then you can interpolate the values so you can get this smooth animation and then if you don't want to use a twin store you can use spring physics so again this ball is just regular boring but if you use spring physics you can make this a lot more interesting all right friends and that's basically it this has been not only a great year for svelte and Svelkit, but also for the channel. We're close to 20k subscribers and I had a blast making every video you see here. And I look forward to making more in the next year. And of course, if you want, you can always support me by becoming a Patreon as low as $1 a month. But basically, that's it. Don't forget to like and subscribe and I wish you a Merry Christmas or whatever you're celebrating and I also wish you a Happy New Year. Alright friends, that's going to be it for me so thank you for watching and catch you in the next one peace