 How's it going everybody? Welcome back and let's learn a few ways that we can use curly brackets in Svelte. So as you see I just have a simple anchor tag with a button element inside of it and I am gonna take advantage of the script tag so I can write a little JavaScript. So let's go ahead and make a message variable and let's say click me. All right. So now that we have that, and we've already seen this example before in previous videos, but I just want to make sure that we really emphasize this. So I can just add the curly brackets, reference the variable, and then that string will appear inside the button, which is awesome. Now, another thing we can do is I can create a URL here just out of a string, and I'm going to do HTTPS colon slash slash. Let's go with apple.com. Okay, awesome. And I can just go ahead and use curly brackets to interpolate it here, right? Right inside the href attribute, which is awesome. So I don't think you can see the bottom of my browser here and that it's showing apple.com. So let me just click this just to prove it. Okay there we go awesome Okay so now that we have those two examples out of the way let bring in a third example and I going to create another variable and we going to call this style and I just going to add a little bit of Tailwind CSS, right? So just text, red, and let's go with maybe 400. Okay, that works, and I'm just going to use curly brackets to place it right here. okay awesome and i'm just going to put style and then as you see that button text has changed which is really nice now something that we can keep in mind here is that inside of curly brackets we can use any type of javascript expression which is awesome and one way we can show this is we can show this through like a ternary for instance so let's just make something ridiculously simple let's say true and if it's true style if not uh empty empty quotes here all right so it remains the same now let's turn this to false and you can see that it changes so i know this is a ridiculously simple example but it's really just trying to prove what we can and cannot do and as you see curly brackets are wildly flexible and svelte and something that everybody loves. So hope you got something out of this video. If you did, go ahead and give us a thumbs up and I will see you in the next one.