 Here's a quick word from our sponsor. Vercel is the platform for front-end developers, providing the speed and reliability innovators need to create at the moment of inspiration. Founded by the creators of Next.js, Vercel has zero configuration support for 35-plus front-end frameworks, including SvelteKit. We enable the world's largest brands, like Under Armour, eBay, and Nintendo, to iterate faster and create quality software. Try out Vercel today to experience the easiest way to use Svelte. Welcome to Svelte Radio. Hello, everybody. It's Svelte Radio. I'm back. I'm not sick anymore. No, sorry. It sounds like you're sick. i'm back i'm joined by my beautiful co-hosts britney and entity and we also have a guest today hello puru hi kevin hey welcome long time no see um so uh i missed last week what happened last week you guys were having a lot of fun we've slept since then i think we did oh i see i think it It was just Anthony and I, and we just bantered back and forth for an hour. And good luck to the editor on that one. Oh, God. All right. All right. Cool, cool. Well, yeah. Like I said, I'm not sick anymore. I don't have a weird fever kind of thing. So I'm back. And like I said, we have Puri here, and we're going to talk to him about all of his weird and fun projects that he's been doing. No, they're not really weird. they're mostly just fun and they're amazing yeah yes yes so Puru who are you for for those that don't know you so hey folks I'm Puru and currently I'm a college student and I've been and I've been just writing HTML and CSS and a little bit of PHP on the way and a lot of yes a lot of PHP and a lot of Svelte and Angular and React along the way since the last eight years and and I've been an intern at Stackplus for over one year And in my free time I just like to learn piano and just try to learn new things I had no idea Yeah, I didn't know you did piano. How long have you been playing piano for? Piano, I would say one year. But if you look at all of the time playing, maybe two hours, I'm not very good at it. Right, okay. All right, yeah. I feel like that's a crossover that we see a lot with developers is that they have like some kind of musical history or past. I kind of like that. Yeah. Can you explain on how you got started at StackBlitz and what you're doing as an intern there? So, all right. Well, first thing I would like to say at this point that I'm not at StackBlitz anymore. So I was an intern. My internship period got to an end. The contract ended. So I'm not at StackBlitz anymore. And by the way, if there are any swell companies out there who want part-time people, please call me. So anyways, I was StackBlitz and I was an intern. And I would like to say I was very lucky in getting that because it was through Twitter. StackBlitz was my second gig ever. And the first one was also through Twitter. And the first one I owe it to actually Swell Society, whoever tweeted my Mac OS web idea initially. Maybe we married this to Kevin. Thank you, man. Thank you. Maybe it was. Could also have been Sean, if it was the Svelte Society account. Yes, I do. So thank you, Kevin and Sean. So I got my first gig through that and second gig was StackBlitz and I got that through Twitter as well. So on my Mac OSFEP thing, basically I just embedded StackBlitz, the code editor itself as VS Code. So there's a VS Code icon on the dock. You click on it. It opens up the entire source code of the macOS web thing in Svelte right on there. So it feels like you are inside the operating system looking at the code, even though it's just stacklets. So this is macOS web for those who haven't seen it. It's basically a website that looks like the desktop of a Mac computer. What's the link again? Can we put that in the show notes? Sure. It is macOS-web.app. M Awesome I also want to pass on something to you that people have said to me before I also said that I feel like I was lucky to get jobs Like I gotten jobs through discord and things like that, but it's not just luck and you may feel like it's lucky, but it is the work and the things that you are putting out into the world that have gotten that job for you. Not just, it's not just luck. You're doing a lot of hard work and a lot of good things. Yeah, so I think a good way of looking at luck is kind of like, you're like, I mean, there's luck, but then the more you show things that you've built, the more things that you do, the more chances there are that people can actually find you, right? So it's kind of like manufactured luck in a way. I don't know. Does that make sense? Sure, it could be. This Mac OS thing, so it's built in Svelte, but I think originally you built it in React, right? Or it was built in React, I don't remember. Yes, so I started this in React when, so it was a very, very cold evening, and I was so bored, I decided to either build a Mac OS clone, because at that time, Mac OS, Mac OS Big Sur, sorry, I'm sorry, which is a Mac OS in which they redesigned everything the recent ones oh uh i think big sir big sir right yeah that could be yeah that could be the one yes so big sir just came out and oh god it looks so good so i just wanted to build something like that some aesthetic of that or i wanted to build my own file manager which i i don't know why i came up with that sounds hard exactly and i'm so glad i did not build that it's so anyway So that was the day I was bored and I started just whipping up some React code. Oh, and by the way, at that time I did not know React. So at that time I decided, well, this could be a good opportunity to just learn React. And that's what I did. That's what I did. I started my code data. I started writing React code, which whenever it errored, I would just learn whatever I was doing wrong and then go back and start doing it again. So within 10 days, I had the basic animated dock working. And that's it. Only the dock, a wallpaper and a menu bar. And nothing was functional in the 10 days. Hurrah. And the bundle size if you would guess was around 150 kilobytes just for one animated dock And then i kind of abandoned that project yeah that is react pretty much exactly and after that i kind of abandoned it because i got bored of that and one month later one month later i got into an into a road accident where i was bedridden for like six months non-stop and then again i was bored yeah and then i was board again so i just decided okay there's this project that i started might as well continue working on that so i took that project and i brushed the dust off of it and started working on it again but a few things i did move it from move from snowpack which was pretty good to wheat which was okay wheat is the best like i don't want to hear any counter arguments wheat is the best sorry so you moved it to wheat while it was still react yes yes react and wheat nice I really like the I like the attention to detail on it I'm just looking at it now because I've looked at it in the past but I was just playing around to see what worked and stuff and one thing I really found fascinating was you've got the notch thing there so you can turn the notch on and off and stuff like that where is that where is that sitting? oh it's the top I was trying to find things in it that Papiru forgot about right I was like I'll find something he's forgotten to do and i thought there's no way he's made this menu work and it works okay there's no way he's made this bit of this menu work and it works okay uh and and about the notch i got a fun detail so i myself have one of those notch macbooks so when i turn on the notch there are two notches on my screen can you just imagine how weird that looks yep exactly so so continuing on i moved it from snowpack to wheat and then at one point it was React to just React. And initially I was using CSS and JS library, styled components. Then it just became plain CSS. And at that time... It kind of sounds like you've speedrun... You've speedrun... What's the past tense of speedrunning? Speedrun? Speedrun, yeah. My English. It kind of sounds like you speedrun the React to a developer experience. Starting off React, realizing the styling situation is hard. So you start using CSS and JavaScript library,

 you give up on React. No, maybe that's not what happens. No, I actually gave up on React. Because with React, it was very, very slow. And at that point, I'd built a lot of features. So the amount of features since November had almost like became 10 times. There were 10 times more features than that. And the bundle size was down to just 60 kilobytes. So I was adding more features and reducing the bundle size as much as I could at the same time and then i got bored of that again because at that time was when i like fully recovered from injury so i had more time so i just left the project just just did a lot of the physical resuscitation work etc etc but then but then came one august i still remember the date 12th august was i was at the peak of my boredom so i decided okay i've been trying swell for a while so let's just let's just try rewriting this little macOS thing i have in swelt and so so i just started copying the components as it is i just copied the react code as it is pasted it in the dot swelt files just removed all of the junk and yeah it was mostly removing not adding which is the best part about swelt i just removed all of the junk that i could i just i did that with every component even got rid of some components because yeah i could just move them into their parent components. I didn't even because Svelte is so much simpler. You can have more stuff in one component compared to React. Yeah, that's probably true. It's not something I really thought about, but yeah. That's kind of what you talked about in your Svelte Summit talk too on how to migrate these React libraries to Svelte and you showed us how to just rip code out. Yeah. I love it. Best part about Svelte, just removing code. Exactly, best part. Yes. And, and so, and so I kept doing that. And in two days it was finished. In two days, I had moved the whole thing from react to Svelte. And, and one thing I have to say, people do these differences like, okay, react so different. So it is so different. The, the, the great thing I found about Svelte is that it is similar enough to react that you can just copy the entire code and just delete parts of it rather than doing a complete rewrite. I did not ever felt like I was doing the rewrite more like just remove the return, remove the function declaration maybe class name to class which is the biggest Right Yeah Yeah Uh that thing So it it never felt like a full rewrite and in two days i was finished and i was about to sleep and i and and i just thought okay let's put it on twitter so i just posted posted this on twitter next day next day i woke up thousand likes lee robinson had shared it social society had shared it it was on hacker news i was Like what the hell happened? Oh, right. Yeah. Yeah. I forgot it trended on Hacker News as well. It was pretty cool. Yeah. As far as I remember, it was on number one on Hacker News for I think seven, eight hours, almost an entire day, which was. That's pretty cool. That just reiterates what I said. Like you put your work out there and it was public and open source and people could look at it and see it and view it. And they liked what you were doing. So it was your hard work and effort that you put in. somebody caught on to it that's like a little bit of luck but like kevin said it's manufactured luck yeah yeah so so you you finished doing that uh now people can go go see it online um are you gonna are you gonna build more functions into it or are you actually building are you updating it or are you focusing on other on other stuff um i would say that i'm incrementally updating it very very tiny for example i i have plans to add a five system to it five system finder maybe a terminal um a terminal that could be powered by web containers maybe i'm not giving any oh that's cool yes so so so for those who are not aware web containers is web containers is uh is this little is this little node in a browser technology by stat plates and what it does you can literally run wheat in your browser. So I have plans of, you know, you have a real VS code and you have Safari and you have a terminal. You start the process in terminal, web containers start. The preview is in the browser. You can drag all of the windows around, just like how you do in real on your computers. So I have those views. I wonder if you could package a web browser somehow and run Safari inside. Oh my gosh. We're in Safari inside of Chrome. Probably not possible at the moment, but yeah. It's just an iframe, isn't it? It's just an iframe. Oh, right. It's just an iframe. Well, you would still have to remake all of the toolbars and all of that stuff right You want it to look exactly the same You could do a fake version but it not as fun Even StackBlitz itself was only supported in Chrome until pretty recently right? I think now it has Firefox support, but Safari is still not quite there. We had Eric Simons on another podcast recently, and he was talking about how they're actually working with the working groups and trying to get these things implemented so that StackBlitz can be ran in multiple browsers. Yeah, I think some people have some issues with web container stuff because they think it's entirely open source. But I don't think it is, right? You still have to interact with a StackBlitz API, if I remember correctly. Yeah, I think there's some binary part to it or something that it has to download. I think it's, I don't know if it's fully not open source. There's some nuance around how it can be supported, I think I'm not quite sure what it is. Maybe Peru knows, the intern there. I don't know. That's true. Okay, so I think I'm allowed to disclose this part based on the end base. Yeah, so there is still some requests going to statpits.com. That is closed source definitely. And the real binary stuff, that is still closed source, but that's pretty much it. So you can think of it as interacting with the Stripe API. Like Stripe is not going to give you all of the money moving logic for open source. But it gives you an interface to interact with that logic. It's sort of like that. Yeah. Yeah. I think the thing is that the naming of it is so, it really sounds like one of those, you know, APIs that are in the browser, right? Web containers. Oh, yeah. Yeah, it does. It really does sound like one of those. So they really nail it with the naming there. I feel like it's kind of the goal. Yeah, probably. Anyway, let's continue. You have a bunch of fun projects that you've made. So you also made a project called Neo Confetti. Is that what it's called? Or is it just Svelte Confetti? So fun thing, it started as Svelte Confetti Exposition and now just Neo Confetti. Why did you change it from this awesome name, Svelte Confetti Explosion. That sounds awesome. Well so basically I have this another project called NeoDrag and that itself was Svelte Drag once I needed Ah right So you wanted to make them under the same brand kind of Yes exactly Because Svelte Drag you can use this in multiple frameworks In fact, I literally have five bindings to use it in different frameworks, all of the one. And I have the same plans with Neo Confetti. Right now it works in only Svelte. I've not made another bindings, but that will come soon. Yeah, so Neo Drag. so I mean maybe the name is kind of self-explanatory but to explain what it is it's basically a package that lets you shoot confetti on your website you said NeoDrag and then you said the confetti NeoDrag is the drag and drop one oh sorry, sorry, sorry NeoConfetti, sorry, sorry all these names I know, there's so many packages NeoConfetti yeah Which is pretty self-explanatory, right? But then you mentioned you also have another package called NeoDrag. And I think this is like the first package that you made that you've also made available in other frameworks, right? Yes. So maybe you can talk a bit about what NeoDrag is before we head into that direction. Sure. So NeoDrag is basically a SvelteAction, a Svelte action that I created almost an year ago to use in my macOS thing. So if you use an operating system, you can see that you can drag your windows around by clicking on the title bar area. And every operating system needs that. And mine also did. Problem is there was no dragging library that suited my need when I was trying to make the, when I was trying to make my macOS in Svelte. So, I put aside another one or two days and created this whole library. So what I did, there's this very good library in React ecosystem called React Dragable. I looked at the source code, fully understood it, and then just wrote it all in a plain vanilla jays fashion that I could. And that became Svelte Drag. And after a while I realized, well, you know, it is just a Svelte actions and Svelte actions are just vanilla JS. Like this doesn't, this does not need to be Svelte drag. It could be React drag. It could be Vue drag. It could be Solid drag. And God forbid, maybe Angular drag as well, but it could be.

 Could be all of them. So then I realized, okay, there's place for rebranding. And so I renamed it to Neodrag. There was a lot of problems with that. The NPM downloads, they dropped and they are still dropped. Still dropped, but they are slowly picking up. But one of the good advantages of that was like, now I can make multiple packages under this Neodrag name. It is sort of a brand at this point that, okay, Okay, if it is NeoTrack, even if it is Svelte or React or Vue, doesn't matter. You know that it will work no matter which framework you're using. In fact, you could download all of them, use them in Astro, different components, and they would all work the exact same. I have actually tested that. So I can say they will actually work the exact same. The API itself is the same, behavior is the same, everything. Oh, and for those of you who do not know, the NeoDrag Svelte version is only 1.7 kilobytes in size. Wow. That's pretty good. It's pretty non-existent. Tiny. That is really tiny. And, I mean, all of that makes sense to me from, like, a marketing perspective. I wonder if it's just taking time for it to pick up. Like, for people to realize that it's the same package and just rebranded. Yeah. Yeah. I wonder if you, if that's, that'd be kind of like, if you could, Ooh, I wonder if you could, if you could have adapters kind of for, for, for maybe not adapters, but, but imagine writing an action once and then compiling it into a React version, the solid version or a Svelte version or whatever. Maybe that could be a fun feature of, of like a, I don't know if it would be built into Svelte or I don't know. Like a cross compilation almost. Yeah, exactly. Since it's just vanilla JavaScript anyway. Like Svelte package, but for actions into, oh, mitosis. You could use, I bet you could use mitosis for something like that. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Could check that out. I don't know. Have you thought about the idea of automating the conversion from Svelte to some other? I guess it's just about like you have to have bindings to the other frameworks right Is that how it worked Peru Yeah so I did think of maybe automating this but then I realized if I writing it by hand I can make it the absolute smallest possible that I could. Whereas if I write a generic adapter, it will have a lot of unnecessary stuff. And keeping the package as small is my highest priority. So I might as well just do the extra work, but I just want the final experience to feel like you are getting really, really good functionality for literally no cost. That's what I want the experience to feel like. That makes sense. That makes sense. All right. So that's NeoDrag. The website you've made for NeoDrag is pretty cool as well, by the way. If you haven't seen it, go into it. I really like these kind of documentation websites where you can actually play around with what the package does. So NeoDrag is a library for dragging things around, right? Yes. And you have all these examples of how you can use it and what options there are and all of this stuff. I think more documentation sites should be like this. Obviously, it doesn't work for all kinds of tooling, right? This is a very visual kind of library. So it makes sense to kind of show it like this. But yeah. Imagine this kind of website for VEAT. But that would be the best thing ever. Yeah, but how would you show these things, right? I mean, you could start containers, right? And run all of the different functionality. But it would be kind of a bit too much, I think. Like your website for Neodrag is just enough to show you what the library does. but it doesn't complicate things. Vite's feature set, I feel like it's so big. You would have to have so many different, even going to the Vite documentation right now. Yeah, there's so much. I've been reading the documentation for over two years and I don't think I've fully read it ever. There's so much there. It's sort of like the roll-up docs. Yeah, I mean, compare... Actually, maybe it's not that big, the documentation. Anyway, tangent. Let's move on. I have a side note tangent also. So your link for Neo Confetti your NPM link is going to your old Svelte Confetti Explosion one that deprecated Shock I mean that not a problem It will redirect you to the new one. It does? Does it not? Where? I think it should. That's a GitHub feature. It's not. It's taking me to the NPM Svelte Confetti Explosion page, and there's no link to the new. Oh, okay. I have to fix that. Thank you. all right so continuing on in the neo brand here you you've teased a bit on uh on twitter a way of of uh of uh using svelte and react what's what's this thing what is i have so okay so before i move on i just have a question for my for for my three fellow people here what do you think of this idea i mean i i wouldn't want to use react at all so are you talking about like Svelte the markup instead of JSX, but you still have to use hooks? No, no, no, no. So mine approach is more like WebAssembly. It has its own isolated functionality itself. So you write your isolated code, and then you import it in your React code. Oh, okay. So you could use Svelte components inside of React? Exactly. You just import them like you do React components. that would be interesting kind of like astro allows you to do different languages exactly yeah it's an interesting idea i think would you encounter issues with i think reactivity would be hard solved in that case i think that's where it might be difficult because the way that reacts and view uh maybe not so much view but to an extent but they people write these libraries that just wrap other libraries for them because of all that wiring stuff that's quite i guess it's specific to the light to the underlying library uh i feel like svelte i should do that because it doesn't have that weird mapping and i think if you were to do the same thing with react you would have to find a way to map all of the stuff like you can translate svelte things to react things easily but it's everything else that wraps around that svelte just kind of gets for free it's hard to explain but i think i think you would end up finding compatibility issues. I don't know. It's worth an experiment, though. Yes. So I think you have an example here for us right Exactly But oh damn I forgot to explain what it is So currently it is just a Viet plugin You import this you put it in your Viet plugins configuration you import Neo Svelte from at Neo Svelte slash react. You import it, you call it, and then you start your dev server. Now in the dev server, how, how dev server, how you work with it? Step one, create a Svelte component. Create a Svelte component. So maybe it is an app.svelte file. Inside that, you would have a basic counter, animation, or, you know, you know, a really, the complete macOS doc. You could have a complete macOS doc in that just build with Svelte. And then what you do, you go to one of your .jsx files. And in that, you do import app from .dot slash .dot or whatever the parts to that Svelte file is, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, slash app.svelte. And then just at the end, you put a question mark react. That's an additional thing in the URL. You put a question mark react. Yes. And then in your markup. Oh, sure. Sorry. Yeah. So this question mark react, that tells your Vite plugin to take the Svelte code and convert it somehow? Or how does, maybe you're getting to this point, sorry. Oh yeah, so I'll answer your question. But continuing on, you have imported the component and how you call the JSX components, you just put the Angular brackets app and then you close it. You do the exact same thing here with the imported Svelte component and it just works. That's the whole premise of it. You just import the Svelte file, just put a question mark react at the end. And as to answering Kevin's question, how it works, it literally just converts your Svelte code to plain JS using the Svelte compiler and just injects a little bit of React code to call that because a compiled Svelte component is just a class that you can call. That is literally it is. Oh, that's pretty cool. So looking at the example here, we have a component and another component and you're just using them like you would use any React component, right? So that's pretty cool.

 Cool. Yes. And if you look at the example, okay, so right now it is commented out, but it also works with React's lazy. So React allows you to code split your code using the lazy. So you write lazy, and then inside it, you dynamically import your component. You can do the exact same thing, and it works. So one of the examples, so one of the experimentation you could do, just to check the bundle sizes, you can lazily import your components in that way and then check the final bundle sizes that tells you and and okay for the viewer the viewers cannot see this but currently the example it is using a tweed store a spring store and a blur transition so transition in svelte where very where when an element is created uh it fades in or it flies in or it just blurs out of nowhere right now this whole example it is blurring it is blurring in and it is just moving around in the most smoothest fashion that only swelt allows you to do and all of that is in built-in swelt the final bundle size that this gives you just about the swelt part is three kilobytes which is far more than other react libraries with which you would achieve the same functionality like with frame and motion if you want to do all of this it would not be less than 25 kilobytes oh nice so you could a lot of code a lot of bundle size oh so so so one one use case for this would be maybe like maybe you could just use a svelte component to wrap some other react code to to get the transition parts or something like that yes yes the so when i was creating this that was literally my thought process that that this could that that this thing using swelter react could be same as using web assembly in javascript because you cannot do some very intense computationally intense things in javascript but web assembly makes it very easy this is similar for things like animation performance oriented for data visualization in which swelter excels at you can just create this one-off component import it within your react and boom it just it It just works and it's faster. And one advantage of this architecture is, all the state that is being managed in Svelte stays within Svelte React is not even touching your state so it is going to be much much faster than your adjacent React code Right That's a user. So that would mean, like, the React components aren't re-rendering and all of that stuff. Not at all. Yeah. No, this is cool. It's kind of like a Trojan horse kind of thing. You're just like, here, use this to improve the performance of your React project by using Svelte transitions. And then people start using it and they're like, oh, maybe we should just continue using Svelte. Another infiltration of Svelte into React Land. Okay, I would need more of that. I would just like to add a small thing. Kev, for this year's Svelte Summit, I was going to suggest, I was going to give in a talk title, Trojanizing React with Svelte. I think that's a great idea. I love it. You should definitely submit that. Awesome. Here's a quick word from our sponsor. Vercel is the platform for front-end developers, providing the speed and reliability innovators need to create at the moment of inspiration. Founded by the creators of Next.js, Vercel has zero configuration support for 35-plus front-end frameworks, including SvelteKit. We enable the world's largest brands like Under Armour, eBay, and Nintendo to iterate faster and create quality software. Try out Vercel today to experience the easiest way to use Svelte. All right, cool. So these are some cool projects. And I guess from this, your next idea came about, which is like a Svelte component CDN. um i you're gonna have to explain this one to me oh yeah yeah what is what is what is the svelte component cdn all right so okay so before i explain i would like to say that this came to me while daydreaming in an extremely boring class so if i explain and it sounds very very weird these are just you know peru i i think i i think you should be bored more often yeah it kind of sounds like every time you get bored you just create something something nice really productive boredom it's great sorry continue yeah so this idea came to me then only so please don judge me too harshly when i say it out um so so currently my thought process is this so basically components combined with compiled with swelled are an extremely good standalone libraries of their own they do not need an external runtime they are pretty much self-sufficient and they're really really small So here the idea was, what if you could, okay, what if you have constraints where you cannot use a bundler at all, where you have to do things the old jQuery way, like just write everything in one index.html, JS inside that, no compiler, no bundler, nothing at all. And in those kind of cases, you would see that CDNs are used quite a lot. For example, Bootstrap CDN, AJAX.GoogleAPI.com, all of those CDNs are used much more than just locally hosting it. So in that case, what if you want to use, I don't know, Svelte Confetti in your plain HTML app, what you could do? Assuming Confetti is a component and not an action, so you cannot directly use it. Assuming this one is, okay, confetti is not a good idea. How about a slider, a swell slider? So you cannot directly use it in any way. You have skeleton UI slider, you cannot use it directly. However, what you could do, you could take a CDN, I don't know, neo-swell-cdn.dev slash, you give it the GitHub URL of the swell file. What the CDN does, it just takes the file, transpiles it, it removes all the TypeScript, it converts the file down to the plain JS, and it gives you just a class slider that you can call in your plain JS code in your HTML file. that and not just that not just that you could do the same with Vue like Vue is very very tiny and I really like Vue so I really think just giving this to Swell wouldn't be fair like we need to give some more competition to Vue so at the same time Vue will also be supported and maybe even Solid at some point Solid would be just transpiling it down to plain JS from JSX I don't know. The idea doesn't sound as good when I say it out, but the swell part, I think it sounds solid. Pun totally unintended Totally unintended Yeah so I guess this is kind of like so one thing I was thinking as you were talking about this is that there is already some kind, what's the CDN where you can get all of the packages? There's a, what's it called? JS Deliver? Yes, yes. So I think you can already get the... So when you publish a Svelte package, I think SvelteKit publishes it as a JavaScript file as well? I don't know. It is just a .svelte file. It's a .svelte, yeah. Yeah, yeah. Okay, so I know there was some talk some time ago, maybe I'm misremembering, that when you compile, for example, a library, that it spits out a JavaScript file that any project would be able to use. I'm not sure about that, though. And took that built file and then published that somehow. But if you use Svelte package and you publish that way, it is just .Svelte. So you have to import that into a Svelte project. Okay, sure. Yeah, then it would make sense, right? You would just point it to a Svelte file and it would convert it or compile it, I guess, to JavaScript. It exactly very much. I wonder if you could even take the JavaScript that is built already. If you build your component, you take that built file and then you put that on a CDN, is that not what ESM is? You have a URL that you can hit that is a package? That's kind of my point, I guess. If you build the package to JavaScript as well, and not just leave it as a Svelte file, then you would already be able to use it, right? Because it would exist in a JavaScript form as well. So maybe this is like, if you wanted to use some specific Svelte file in some kind of project that doesn't expose the specific Svelte file, maybe, I don't know. I think it's- So if I understand the question correctly, sorry, as far as I know, there is no plan to, in Svelte package to move it to .js because the thought process that I got from the maintainers is that future versions of Svelte can transpile the .svelte

 even more efficiently. So if you're going to compile it yourself, now, maybe one year later, some other library using it, it won't be able to use it properly. So that is the idea that I've heard. So Soil package is not going the .js way. So it is up to the community, the ecosystem, like I don't know, to some CDN to do that for you. Yeah, I mean, it seems like an idea worth exploring, right? just being able to like convert on the fly to between like if you wanted to use some very high quality view library in Svelte even right then you could maybe I mean in Svelte it would be easy right you would just wrap the result from the CDN in an action and then attach it somewhere oh yes that would be good and another idea I had in the CDN URL you just put question mark react at the end and gives you a React component of that. So little new self, but on Cdn. So using query parameters to... Ah, interesting. That could be fun. Sounds like a very hard thing to build, though. Like, I guess it's Mitosis. Yeah, sort of. But with a CDN. I wonder, does Mitosis have an API? Could you already do this? Like, convert between projects? Oh, yeah. So would you mind if I talk about Mitosis and some of the other things that could be... No, no, go ahead. So Mitosis is actually pretty great. Mitosis is sort of like you just write Svelte component and just uses some AI thing to write it to React. It's not AI, but it feels like you just fed it to chat, and then it gave you the React component. It sort of feels like that. Mitosis is great. Problem is I do not see transitions in Mitosis. Transitions or the really cool Svelte APIs. a lot of the Svelte APIs that you import rather than the ones built into the templating itself. So that's one of my things. Otherwise, okay, in future, if mitosis ever gets transitions in all the Svelte features, I'm deprecating this project. Then there's no point pursuing something like this after that. Does Svelteosis, the Svelte version of it, do that? Because they've integrated that now into the mitosis project. Yes, Svelteosis, exactly. Does it do the transitions and stuff that you looking for or no I don think so I tried but I do not think you can import the Swell libraries Oh, I see. So you can't import anything, maybe? As far as I know, because it does not have Swell's runtime in any way. It is literally just reading it and writing a line-by-line to React or Vue or Angular. And they do not have the same APIs. I see, yeah. You can imagine that to some extent in view, but just try imagine doing a Swell transitions example in React without any external libraries. You just can't. Well, what you should do, I just went to their GitHub and it says they're actively looking for folks interested in becoming contributors. So you should contribute back to my doses. Maybe Builder.io will give you a job. That's your next job. Yeah, that would be a fun one because some of the people working there, Adam Bradley, Manu Corporate, oh, sorry, Manu Martinez, Almeida, some of them are like sort of my, what's that sort of, I really admire those people because of Stencil.js. They work on Stencil.js and Stencil.js is a very underrated thing. And Mishko, who was Angular and is now QuickWorks there. Stencil is the, is that the web component? Yes, that is. In fact, one time I was so, yeah, this kind of fun story. I kind of had a, let's say, a small fight with Rich Harris on Twitter back in 2020. Because I was so sold on web components. I don't think web components are that great for building a whole app now. But that time I thought and I had a Twitter banter on Rich Harris on Twitter. I wonder if I can find it somehow. Yeah, he doesn't like web components at all. I don't really love web components because the API is just awful to use. And I think there's ongoing issues with the Shatter DOM not exposing some of the things that you need to do certain stuff. It's hard to server-side, or you can't server-side render them. Yeah, that's a big one, right? I think for, like, I haven't used web components that much, so. I haven't either, but my limited experience with them was very negative. Right Doesn bode well So writing web components raw or even with lit is not a great experience With Stencil this is actually pretty good It sort of like you writing the class React It is far better than raw web components. That does not sound good. That doesn't sound better. I mean, it is good. At that time, it felt good. Now with having done Svelte, I will not go back to it at all. Yeah. But it was good. Right. Yeah. I mean, you can write web components in Svelte. So that's actually possible. You just have to turn on the option. Have it compile, right? Yeah, yeah, exactly. Can I talk about just one more thing, one project that I'm doing? Yeah. Absolutely. So this one is going to make many people very happy. So I'm officially working on the Swell.dev revamp. It's getting a dark mode and multiple pages documentation. Oh, nice. Nice. So it's going to be a multi-page app instead of a single-page app? Yep. Sweet. Using SvelteKit? Maybe it already is using SvelteKit. Yeah, it already uses SvelteKit, and of course there will be search functionality and everything. So I am working on it right now, and it should be out sometime. I will not say when it will be out. That's up to the maintainers, but I would say it is coming along pretty well. That's great. That's great. It really needs a revamp. Well, it kind of needs an update to the kit documentation standards. So the same thing that Kit is doing now. And I haven't completely caught up on the dev vlog episode that you did with Rich, but were they talking at all about the things that they need to do before Svelte 4? No. So I think they're actually working on Svelte 4 at the moment. I was talking to someone, and they were saying that before they can work on Svelte 4, maybe it was Antony last week, we were talking about the Svelte 4 milestones and that before they can do that, they need to get it migrated to a PMP and mono repo and set up the same way that the kit. Yeah. Right. So I think that's one of the, I guess that would be one of the milestones for Svelte 4. We didn't talk that much about Svelte 4, but it's basically like getting rid of very old dependencies and stuff. So I think it's going to, I think they're going to be pretty fast on the Svelte 4 stuff. We'll see. That was something we talked about last week. Yeah. So next dev vlog stream thing in April maybe I ask them some questions about this Awesome Some more details We haven talked about the dev vlog I think we left that for you to talk about So you should talk about that. Oh, right. Yeah. So I've started doing a developer vlog thing with Rich and hopefully some of the other maintainers as well that we do once a month on YouTube. And I'll put a link in the show notes to the first one. And we're going to do it once a month. The first Wednesday of every month is the idea. And the time, it's, let's see. I mean, why do I even try? Time is always difficult. It's 4.30 Central European time. So that would be like, I don't know, 10, 11 a.m. on the East coast in the u.s or something it's always going to be at the same time every month yes okay yeah and then that's the idea this weekend's felt is now being recorded and that was posted and posted and published for the first time this week to the youtube channel so that's new yeah uh so yeah we're gonna put it we're gonna put a link in in in the in the notes to that as well and yeah that that happens once a week right uh and it's alternating times right for for the it's either more for the European people or for the U.S. people, kind of. It was alternating. Let me see. The one this week is the early one, so 9.30 a.m. for me. So that would be the more European. Yes, centric one. And then the next week will be the later one, and it's three hours later than the other one. And so maybe can you explain what happens this week in Svelte? Yeah. So Enrico does a great job of kind of going over what's been in the Discord, what is changes that have happened in Svelte and SvelteKit over the week, questions that people are asking repeatedly or things that he sees that come up. And then he will go over and show REPL examples or like describe like how these things are supposed to work and just go into detail. And it really sparked some like interesting conversations. And there's been lots of different topics. I mean, it's always like covering a wide array of things. It's been very interesting. And I'm glad. It seems to be very well, well received as well. Yeah. And I'm really glad that they're being recorded now and are,

 able to like be viewed later. I think that was the problem in the beginning was that not everyone could attend and I could hit like some of them and not all of it. And I'm really glad to be able to go back and watch it now. Welcome back, Anthony. Speaking of, Anthony is back. Hello. So, so, all right, let's, let's talk about the, your, your, your thing here that you put in the virtual DOM is not pure overhead, the blog post. So yes, what's this about? So on Twitter, I think it's one of the quick devs one of the core team has posted a tweet which is exactly paraphrasing Rich Harris' talk about virtual DOM is pure overhead and that blog post is still live on the Svelte site if you read into it you know it's kind of common sense stuff it is pure overhead because you're you might be manipulating something that's theoretically faster but one you've still got to write to the DOM so you're still writing to the DOM and the second thing is that you are diffing between a virtual DOM and a real DOM to understand the difference in order to determine what to render so it's designed as an optimisation because you're only rendering parts of the DOM but ultimately you're still rendering the same DOM and the diffing is a mass overhead so it was and to my mind, to our mind, it still is pure overhead, you don't need a virtual dom it is going to be slower than writing to dom directly um you know svelte svelte's principle is surgically updated dom and that still stands true in my mind that if you're if you're making specific updates to dom you are doing you're you're doing it really quickly and there's nothing going to be faster than that however this tweet was a direct rebuttal to that post so i'll be interested to see what it is but i'm not gonna hold my breath as it were i would be interested to read it too because quick doesn't use a virtual dom as far as i know they do a similar thing with svelte to reactivity well see that i don't know what the premise of the post was all about but there you go and then ryan carneado is like in the thread as per usual like everything is overhead yeah he's not wrong he's not wrong and if that that's kind of like the crux of blog post right is everything is overhead and like i know that this thing is on pure overhead right there might be reasons to use a virtual dom the the interesting thing between the blog post is what are those what are those things that are interesting you know that make a case for the virtual dog let say And I guess, you know, it could be silly things like CSS isolation or whatever, but come on. Yeah, right. So we're waiting on that article because it seems, so it's a poll. Should I write the article? that has gotten 82% yes. Said do it. So there you go. Yeah. Yeah. So I just realized there was a, I don't know if you talked about this last week, the types, new type stuff in SvelteKit. The new types of SvelteKit. Maybe not. Anything to do with types, I will not know about. No, it doesn't sound like you've talked. No, we did not talk about that. All right, let's talk about that because there's actually a blog post on the Svelte website about this. The title is Zero Effort Type Safety. And it's a feature that Simon has been spearheading. And it's basically, you don't have to import your types anymore. It's just done automatically. So instead of doing like import dollar sign types, or sorry, import whatever it is. Yeah, the weird types that we get in Svelte. See, page data from .slide. Well, that is inferred from Spellkit now. Yep. Which is... And now you don't have to... Feels like the way it should be. Yep. So that's a huge win for developer experience, I feel like. Yes, that's great. And that's pretty much it. If you want to read the blog post, I can recommend it. And that's in any file, right? Not just a routes file. That I do not know. So I think it's just like... So it just infers the stuff for the data prop. So if you pass things down from the page file to another component, you should be fine as well. It should have the types. I wish types would just be auto-imported for me. I hate importing types in general. Yeah, same. Maybe they'll keep working on this and we can just write, create me an app and we'll have chat GPT do it for us GPT 4.0 is out now I saw something today on Twitter about a Svelte chat GPT thing is coming soon oh yeah yeah i saw that as well it gonna be fun um but yeah i think that that that it for for for the topics um purut is there anything else you want to talk about before we move on to to the unpopular opinions um sure i just i just remember i skipped over two things first of all um there are many implementations to do the same things and they vary in how they do it. Some of them, they generate entire files. Some of them, they're runtime. Mine is completely memory-based and the second thing, it will be type safe. So you just import the component and you get all the props and events and everything right there. So you're talking about Svelte component CDN now, right? No, no, no. Neo Svelte. It will be completely type safe. You will not lose any of that which is which is the feature compared to the other implementations that's one thing and the second one is why why i want to make this uh so like uh i already said it i wanted to be a web assembly in react but honestly i do not work in react i do not want to work in react so why why am i making this uh simple question it is completely selfish i just want there to be more swelting world so when i get the new job swelting is a high probability this is this literally selfish that's where the whole plan came from i want more swelting the world i i want more companies to be using swelting because well first of all swelting rocks it just rocks you should be using swelting absolutely and that is my purpose i just want more swelting the world but that's it yeah that makes sense all right so uh since anthony is back we can now talk about his unpopular opinion while he's eating some kind of measuring device it's a caliper oh i'm using it as also known as measuring advice device all right so let's hear it right so it's just an observation because uh there's a lot of debate at least on my twitter feed about cycling and active travel and that kind of stuff um cyclists are not obliged to cycle in the cycle lane and that rule makes a lot of sense you know if there's one available and it makes a lot of sense because a lot of cycle lanes are crap right they don they just absolute nonsense design they run into lamppost walls they throw you out to dual carriageways and stuff like that there a reason yeah like some of them are just really some of them are there just for the sake of saying we have a cycle lane they're not actually usable um and it happens more than you think and there's loads of photos of just ridiculous things that happened um there's one there's one just at the river for me that runs directly into a wall so you know i understand why we won't want to use those and there's ones there's ones where you're cycling along and you can't get on it from where you are because there's a massive curb in the way like you i want i'm looking there cycling along the road looking at the cycle lane wondering how nice it would to cycle on it but i can't actually get to it just activate the bike wings and fly exactly yeah if i had a mountain bike with suspension maybe i'd give it a go but i don't have a road bike so yeah i understand there's reasons for it however we have also some you know on the flip side some really really good cycling infrastructure and there's segregated cycle lanes which are getting more and more use they're full of people it's really good really nice and you know i can happily cycle around london and not in track with cars at all which is great because a lot of drivers are crap right and dangerous so it's good that these things are here and i often still see people because they're not obliged to use them i see people just they're cycling in the middle of the road holding all the cars up and there's nothing annoys me more is it's equally as bad as the bad drivers right because all you're doing is is angering people angering drivers making them say oh you give them a case to say that cycle lanes are useless and not used or whatever um riling up you know hard feeling between people you know people who cycle people who drive and all that kind of stuff and it's it's it's just a horrendous thing that you know the amount of fights and arguments that go on and counselors threatening to rip cycle lanes out and stuff we don't need a bunch of militant cyclists who decided that they're too good for cycle lanes to go and stir up even more problems so it really it really irritates me so my opinion is they're dickheads i mean i don't know where they're like i haven't got more creative words like an entitlement thing like they are feel like they're entitled to do that and i don't think this is an unpopular opinion here we don't have like a lot of dedicated cycle lanes we have really good sidewalks and walking areas but then they're not supposed to be on that so they have to be in the road which i despise it like you can't get around them it's dangerous for them it's dangerous for you it's like it's just a bad scenario yeah it's a bad scenario that's it and it is entitlement it's it's people doing it there's only two reasons i can imagine one is that the cycle lane's bad and

 fair enough um that's a problem you've got to solve by making improved cycle infrastructure the other reason is just because you you're arrogant or you're you know you're entitled or you're trying to prove a point or you think you're too fast for a cycle lane you don't want to get blocked by the people none of those reasons are good reasons and it just pisses me off really irritates me and i'm you know i i would not be on the side of the cyclist if that cyclist got knocked off you know i'm not that i'm encouraging anything like that but if that cyclist got knocked off i'd be with the driver saying look you know they shouldn't have been where they were there's nothing you can do about it right they were given the safety net and they didn't use it i think this is a popular opinion you'd be surprised you'd be surprised the amount of the amount of videos i see on twitter people doing it and saying yes but i'm not obliged to be in the cycle lane all right it's not the point yeah they're uh they're what what what we call over here uh paragraph writers that's okay i don't think that translates well so it's basically you know uh people that follow the the the the rules or the laws to the point like right to the dot and they like do not to make a point and they do not deviate from it yeah yeah it's just that's it yeah paragraph yeah i'm gonna shout paragraph at them hey question actually careful whilst i was in sweden i noticed a moped driving down the segregated cycle lane yeah is that normal yeah i mean it depends on what kind of moped like it could be classed as a as a i don't know what what the difference are differences what they're called probably 50 cc or something yes it's something like that or like there's a specific speed limit or something and and they're like i think there are rules depending on like what the road conditions are like if there's a wide enough i don't i don't know interesting and also some some people just don't care and yeah yeah that's that's because that's what my assumption was that this person's doing is not you know it's not the rules kind of thing could be some combination of things as well yeah i'm not an expert in in moped law so i'm gonna pass on this one yeah they're banned here you can't cycle in the and it's like you can't ride a moped in it or anything powered i think in the cycle apart from electric yep all right britney you want to all right want to share yours so my unpopular opinion and it may not be very unpopular in the Svelte ecosystem but I think Storybook is doing a good job of marketing and saying like oh we support SvelteKit now And like they're doing a lot of work and a lot of good things. And Ben McCann has been helping them to get some things integrated into Storybook for SvelteKit. But I still don't think it's quite there. and things that are missing are like slots. Like you cannot do a slot in a storybook file. So if you're trying to do a story that has multiple components that need to be kind of composed together, the workaround is to create a .svelte file, do all of that, and then import that as a story file. But then it just really doesn't like match very well and you don't get the same functionality. And then archetypes are still like something that you have to be explicit about. So when you're all of your props in your component, you have to list them explicitly in storybook for the top level component and for each variant of that component. So each story you want to write, you have to like specify those. And it feels just so repetitive and so overly like every time I view storybook, I just feel like this. Like I just have to write a lot of stuff for it to do what I want. Right. You have to write very long stories, novels. Yes, novels. and I really don't like writing. Yeah. So it sounds like the DX could be improved a bit there. The DX is improved, but they have people on it and they're very responsive. So I'm in the storybook thing, even in the Spelt Discord, like they're in our discords, like helping us and doing those things. So they're working on it. They're doing a really good job. It's just not there yet. All right. Hopefully it does get there. That's all right, Peru. Let's hear your very strong, unpopular opinion. I think we just talked about his, right? Did we do yours before Anthony came back? Oh, maybe we did. No? No, no, I don't get a chance yet. Oh, okay. Sorry. Yeah. So before I go forward with this, I would like to say that I dare dream this one in another boring class. So again, no hard judgments, please. Okay I would sort of say that the whole Neoswelt is sort of like an unpopular opinion itself Because I posted this on Discord and some people were like why would you do this and i get that but what about this you use react components in swell the same way no no react in swell and you call it the sweet but wouldn't you need react to run the react components i wouldn't want to do that exactly yeah i would not want to do that either but i want to see a GitHub repository where someone is doing that. I just want to see that. It is not an unpopular opinion, it's just an unpopular, extremely sinful thought that I would like to read. Nice. That's it. I thought you were going to say that you despised Svelte or something. it sounded like you were gonna that's even horrifying just to hear yeah no I'm partly kidding alright so we're into the last section of the show picks do you guys have any who wants to go first Puru why don't you go first Puru go so my pick is Attack on Titan season 4 part 3 first episode came out it was the best thing of the entire year and maybe even the last year so please please if you are an attack on titan fan and you have not disowned it after season three i i i simple audio please go watch it it is the best thing ever in the world so attack on titan is is a manga and an anime right so you're talking about the the anime here i guess yes i watched it i think it's pretty good as well I haven't seen I'm not sure if I've seen the last the last season though or the last part I'm not gonna make this a pick like I can't recommend this show but what I watched this week is Willow the remake TV show based on the 1980s movie and it was so like mediocre that I can't recommend you go watch it I started watching that as well and I was like this is so not very good Yeah, I got all the way to the end and I was like, it was watchable, but it's like, I cannot recommend you go watch. Well, well. INDB is 5.6, so we get that. Isn't it funny how like there's inflation in ratings? Like five should be average right Oh yeah But I wouldn really go for something that below seven unless I really wanted to watch it. But yeah, I don't know. I don't look at ratings. I should probably start doing that before I watch something. Yeah. Yeah. I've been watching. So, so I can pick mine as well. I have three, three quick ones. So, uh, I have one called Chained Echoes. If you're a fan of Super Nintendo JRPG-style games, this is for you. It's very fun, and that's pretty much it for that one. And then I have two Apple TV shows, one called Liaison. with, it's like this show about terrorist attacks in the UK featuring, God, what's her name? I'm so bad with celebrities. Ava Green, is that a name? Anyone? No? That's a name. I don't know if it is a person's name. Yeah, Ava Green is an actress. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. It's an actress. Yeah, so it's a very good show. And then there's another TV show also on Apple TV Plus with Harrison Ford and Jason Segel, which is about  they're like psychologists and it's a comedy show. It's very fun. I'm blanking on the name, but  And while you have Apple TV Plus, Ted Lasso is coming back on soon. Pretty much the best show ever. Love that show. Oh, the show is called Shrinking because there's shrinks. Hey. Nice. That sounds funny. It is pretty good. Check it out. All right, I'm done. Cool. Anthony? Anthony, have a pick? I don't have any picks this time, no. I don't have any picks. Oh, well. All right. Unpopular opinions. Only unpopular opinions. That ends up being popular opinions. Yeah. Well, it depends who you talk to, doesn't it, I suppose. No, I agree. I agree. I'm just joking. All right. So that's it for this show. Puru, it was nice having you on. Finally, after so long. Last time I saw you was at Svelte Summit last year. It was a blast. Your talk was great as well. We should probably link all of your talks in the show notes.

 actually because you've done i do have the one from last summit how to migrate react libraries to spelt in there yeah cool you're muted so i can't hear you oh uh so i've only done two and both of those are for swell so shouldn't be a big deal yeah but yeah so uh yeah thanks for coming on and we'll talk to you in the future. And goodbye to all of the listeners. This has been Svelte Radio. Thank you for listening.