 So welcome to my talk using SvelteKit and MIT App Inventor to inspire young girls for tech. First, a little bit about myself. I'm a husband, father of four kids, as you see in the picture here, and I originally started out in robotics but I made my hobby into my passion into my day job and I work now in web technologies I'm a web enthusiast at WUM the kids bike brand more on later i'm also a musician because four kids full-time job i i need a little bit more challenge and i'm also one of the founders of society vienna because i need more buzz in my life as well so i want to talk today about the vena tochter tag which was last week there were over 300 companies who attended in and around Vienna where girls starting with the first whatever that is in English could come and try out tech jobs and just get an idea of how that works and the idea behind it is that young girls like to show them what it looks like that they can touch something do something with it and what we did at womb was uh at the one hand using ai to generate a user interface we we used v0 from their cell and it was kind of fun and like it did even integrate like a camera reader where it opened and had interactivity with the camera. So there was like really some nice cool things going on, even generated a map and all of that. And there were like quite cool conversations around data collection and stuff going on. And then the second station with me, where we built an android app with mit app inventor and yeah i had just a bare bones template prepared and the girls were able to build this app themselves put all of the user interface together and then the logic together as well so that's like a really cool experience in my opinion so we had 15 super girls it was super fun and we need super base because what we wanted to do is like have a dashboard that shows the registered bike with the app that we built so super base super easy to set up i'll say super a few more times ssr is super for initial loading speeds for server-side render and that's possible with super base and svelte kit it's also super easy to subscribe to changes on the front end on the client and i'll show that in the in code it's really easy to set up and of course we need an api route for android app to connect to and we need of course confetti for every new entry that reaches our dashboard so we come now to the demo part for anyone who wants to download the finished android app there is a qr code i leave that up now we need at least a few to see the confetti afterwards So let's switch over. So let's do the first step. Let's jump into the MIT App Inventor. so this is kind of the finished product and i want to show you around a little bit on what can be done so like we previously before that project or a fun little project with with the girls that were there i built treasure hunt apps and all of that kind of thing so it's really versatile and can do quite a lot of things um on the left side there are some user interface things and layout and media very important for example other sensors you can do for example a barcode scanner and you see down here it's already i'll make it a little bit bigger there's a barcode scanner already added as a non-visible component and yeah so the user interface is pretty simple you put in your name you put in an emoji you scan a QR code and then you register so that you use interface pretty simple you can change a lot of stuff and the design and then in the back end you have like little Lego blocks so perfect for tipping your toes into coding so getting them familiarized with what are variables how do we use them helping them to understand like the actions with click events or when the QR code scanner finishes reading or how do we actually submit data from our Android app to our website how do we do that um yeah and some small error handling of course so that that was something that they were allowed to build in about half an hour me guiding them through all of the steps and having some some papers prepared so they have an idea about the design and the the flow chart of what users should do in our application So let's take a little peek at our code as well. So setting up Superbase, super easy for SvelteKit. There is a really nice documentation specifically for SvelteKit to get server-side rendering and a server-side client of Superbase up and running. You extend your hooks.server.ts, and they recommend or their recommendation, you can of course name it in whatever way you want, is to attach it to event.locals.superbase, where we could use the createServerClient from Superbase.sr. And this is pretty much copy-paste. The only thing that you need to do in your nf variable, you set up those two, the public Superbase URL and the in key to access that database and then you good to go another thing that might be nice to set up is in your app.tts i don't have that open at the moment to get some intelligence and some typescript would be to set up some database like type generation for your super base which is also read it in the docs, do it one time, and you're good to go. So you get intelligence on what tables you have, what you can filter, what you can query. So it's quite nice. It does what it should do. As a next step, when you've set up all of the background, you have Superbase available in your server code. So in this case, we are at the server part of the page, which is the root page, where we prefetch all of the existing data, order it by ID. So we have the newest ones on top. Oh, of course, sorry. I did that on the other screen, but it is that fine? Yeah. Perfect. Cool. Yeah, so we have a load function where we load our data from Superbase. And if we take a look here, we should have type IntelliSense and type checking for registration. So if we would have a type here, registration with updn, it would tell us right away. So it's super easy to set up, super nice to have IntelliSense, So, of course, we want to get real-time updates in the client, because a dashboard needs to be responsive and all of the data needs to be super accurate and up-to-date. And that's also really easy. I decided to create inside of a lib in the lib folder a super-based front-end client. really necessary in this small scope of a project but like a good practice and of course I put in the typing here as well so also in the front end when we use that one client we'll always get the correct typing on the page itself it's really easy to set up the updates so what I did is I listen to that channel you need to enable that on super base because it's not enabled by default which is I guess for performance reasons and then when we have changes whatever event we just take the pay yeah more heck than anything else just take the payload and put it into the first position and then in in order to display the confetti and we'll make hide the confetti component wait a little bit and then show it again so it's spring because magical stuff there we'll hopefully see that afterwards in the dashboard so that the last part that we need to take a look at our api endpoint for our android app our very sophisticated android app so what i do here is just get out the query parameters and then our api that gets the bike data and links it up to some frame number that printed on the bottom of each spike So like each frame number is unique and we have a way to link that hidden away behind this API And then when I get the bike information, I push that forward into Superbase, and the front end listens to those changes. This way. So that's the code part. Before we jump to the next step of the presentation, are there any code-related questions before? Yes. Don't forget them. Save plus pages. No, I will not save those. Superbase is its own little thing, and it's just API calls. So API calls work great on Vasell. This dashboard is hosted on Cloudflare pages, but it could be hosted on Vasell or whatever other platform you choose with the amazing adapters that are available. I think there's even integration so directly created database through Vasell. Yeah. It's a little bit. Yeah, I haven't tested that. um yeah then moving over to the dashboard we see we already have some come on we already have some data here and now if some people would um take out their app and maybe scan one of those QR codes on the left side there is a red bike and on the right or my right side your left side there is a hot pink bike so whatever you prefer all the girls prefer the hot pink bike so if if you put in your name and your emoji and then register it should show us some confetti here two two bikes yeah so that was kind of the experience that those 15 girls had at our office with something that they built themselves and were able to see visualized nicely on a dashboard So jumping back to this. Yes. So we've seen all of the demo right now, unfortunately. So I'm done for today. Thank you for listening, and I hope you enjoyed it. Any questions? I don't know anything about App Inventor. What's the output? APKey, or you can also somehow connect it with some iPhone stuff. I'm not an iPhone user, so I didn't try that. Originally, it was just built for Android. And it's pretty cool. They have the build server that you trigger, and then you get a QR code to download the app. And very simple, really nice experience. You can even do USB debugging stuff if you want to. So it's quite a nice experience for this really LEGO build your app kind of thing. Cool, then thank you for your time and I'll hand over.