 welcome to svelte radio hey welcome it's another episode of svelte radio hello everyone hi britney hi jeff how are you guys doing so we're missing anthony and sean today anthony couldn't be here sean couldn't be here i don't know why probably busy or sleeping who knows but we are joined by jeff hi how are you doing hey i'm doing good we're we just started getting a lot of rain where i am so i've been staying inside yeah you so you live on the weather you live on the west coast right yeah washington state washington okay washington i worked for alaska airlines but they're all right yeah in washington so the person i work closely with also lives in well actually he lives in oregon but he just said the same thing yesterday that it just started raining and it's like rainy season yeah it's been dumping but it's good you know rain is good All right. So Brittany, what have you been up to lately? Just started building components, which I'm really excited about. So finally out of the carousel, I don't know if I mentioned any of that on air, but we were talking about the carousel the last couple of times we recorded and that finally got shipped this week and I'm done with that. And on to actually building the design system that we're going to do. So I'm very excited to be building components again and not in the app building with that crazy carousel. Yeah, no, that makes sense. Yeah, you said carousel and I'm just like, oh, yeah. Those are tricky. No, thank you. Better you than me. I just try to avoid them whenever someone wants a carousel. I'm like, ah, no, maybe there's some other way we can do this. Are you sure? Are you really sure you want us to spend 600 developer hours on this? or whatever it takes. And right after this, like we did a rollout meeting yesterday and our designer showed on mobile a dropdown with a carousel inside of it I was like am I implementing this Can we not do that Yeah that doesn sound like a good idea Yeah. All right. So like I said, we're joined by Jeff. You are known in this felt community for talking a lot about the Vue Transitions API lately, right? So maybe you can give us a a background on who you are. You've been on the podcast before, but it's always nice. Yeah. True Svelte radio fans and Svelte Summit watchers. But no, so yeah, my name's Jeff. I'm one of the current Svelte maintainers. And like Kev said, I've been playing a lot with V transitions. So I think I did my first article about them about a year ago, them being a new and upcoming browser API. And I just really want to play around with it in SvelteKit. So I've been using them a Whenever I tweet about Vue transitions, it does very well on Twitter because people just love seeing them in action. Yeah, it's too bad this is an audio kind of thing where you can't really show the concepts. Hopefully I can convey how cool it is. But we'll definitely be able to point to some resources to see them in action because, yeah, it's a very visual API. Yeah. Cool. Wait, aren't we recording screens now and showing video? We are, but like most of the people are realistically going to watch or listen to this, right? It is still a podcast. It is a podcast. Good audio content. Yeah. That's the goal. Yeah. So let's get into it. What are Vue transitions? Yeah. So I guess it's important to start out by saying, so we're going to be talking about the Vue transitions API, and this is a browser API. It's nothing spelled specific. So most of what we're going to be talking about today is the browser API and then also how you can use it in Svelte and SvelteKit. But this is a transferable, you know, you can use this in Vue or React or without a framework at all. It's going to be just JavaScript and CSS. But so, yeah, the Vue Transitions API is it's a newer API right now only implemented in Chrome based browsers. But other browsers have expressed interest. and it essentially simplifies the process of transitioning between two page states, which you could do before, but it was kind of tricky. So if you imagine, I don't know, if you looked at page transition tutorials in SvelteKit before, it's like, when I navigate, I want to fade out the old page and fade in the new page. And you can kind of get this with like Svelte transitions or CSS transitions, but you have to position the old and new pages on top of each other to make sure it like a smooth fade out Yeah I think that one of the common pitfalls I think a lot of people end up in. They forget that they have to position the page, like the actual page component inside of the same element and do a position absolute. Or I guess you could also do grid 1 slash 1 or whatever it's called to do that. Yeah, because it's not very intuitive because like you're essentially spelled as holding the old and new pages on the page at the same time and you're having to kind of hack around it to force them. And this gets also trickier. Like if you're like a shared element on the page, like let's say you have an avatar that you want to transition to its spot on the new page, that starts to get tricky, especially if they're separate elements. So what the view transitions API aims to do is simplify a lot of this. Give you a way to tell the browser like, hey, I'm about to do a transition. capture this old page state and then smoothly transition it to the new page state. And by doing that, you just get to remove a lot of code doing this yourself or code from a dependency to help coordinate all this. Just the browser is figuring out how to transition between these two states. So this is obviously, it sounds more powerful than just CSS animations or CSS transitions. But I also, I guess they're not really aiming to do the same thing. right? You would use animations for something else, transitions for, well, CSS transitions, I guess you, they'd be pretty close. Yeah, there's a lot of overlap. And I think one of the cool things about this API is how much it does use CSS. Like I believe when they were first working on it, like there was a different way to customize the animations. And eventually they were like, no, to customize these view transitions, you just write regular CSS animations. Yeah. So there's overlap. But yeah, I would say like CSS transitions still have their place, like on individual elements. This is, especially page transitions are really good for view transitions because of those coordination problems I talked with. And then also just anything, if you're familiar with the term flip animation, or like you're moving an element from one place to another, view transitions also fit really well with that. You don't have to, because that would be hard to write as a pure CSS animation. If you're doing something more complicated, view transitions, you can just, here's the element, it moved from here to here, and the browser can figure out how to move it to the new spot. Probably way more efficient as well. Yeah because you not having to write It implemented in the browser So the browser is able to use its lower level code to make this happen It kind of amazing how we moving more and more away from using JavaScript for these things that we forever really used forever really written to do these app things Right? Right. So view transitions allow you to basically write apps that look more native, right? Yeah. Like you can recreate some of those like native going to a new screen, like having things move over and out, like those more app-like animations can be possible with view transitions. And then I guess the other thing, like I think if you've been plugged into the web dev community, you've noticed Astro recently released some support for page transitions. I was getting a lot of hype too. And I think the bringing this, this page animation stuff to MPAs that don't use JavaScript for client-side navigation is also a huge win, like unlocking these kinds of animations, regardless of what, what kind of tech stack you're on. Yeah. So how, how does it work on a more technical level when, when you implement this? Do you, do you need support for JavaScript or can you do this without? So right now you need JavaScript. The only shipped version of this API is the, basically you call a document.startViewTransition to like trigger the transition in JavaScript. So you do need JavaScript to use this right now. They are working on a spec, like what does this look like? If you're doing a full page reload, I believe something involving meta tags. Interesting. But yeah, essentially what it looks like, how you use this is when you want to start a transition, you call document.startViewTransition and you pass it a callback. And inside that callback, you actually update the page. So if you're in vanilla JavaScript, Like maybe you add an element here, remove an element here, change these properties all inside the callback. And then when the callback returns, the browser will be like, okay, we started in this state. We're now in this state. And I will just perform the animation between the two states. It doesn't sound... And how it actually works is really cool. Behind the scenes, it's actually taking like essentially a snapshot of the old state and the new state. And then it's able to use that to animate between them. And that kind of solves the problem we were talking about earlier, where it's like, you kind of have to hack around to have both page states around and able to mess with it at the same time. This is the browser, like you have two layers of the old and the new states, and that's how you're able to animate between them. It really sounds like a cool API. I haven't played around with it a lot. It's really cool.

 It's fun. It's also very easy to abuse. I think we're probably going to enter an era of people just doing these ridiculous time-wasting animations. Just ignoring reduced motion. Yeah, reduced motion. But even beyond that, wouldn't it be cool if this animation took 600 milliseconds to go to the new page and got to move all these elements in? So I think there's definitely an experimentation phase happening right now to try to figure out what a good view transition is. But it's very fun. It's very flashy to show off when you play around with it. How would different routers and then different rendering affect this? Can you do this from a server-side rendered route? Yeah, I mean, I guess, are you asking like more in general or like SvelteKit specifically? I guess SvelteKit specifically, but even if you were running just a node server, I guess. Yeah, so right now, essentially all you need, remember, you call start view transition. Yeah. I need some way of actually updating the page inside that callback, or at least some way of waiting for the page to update. So SvelteKit, we can get into this in a bit, but SvelteKit has a new lifecycle hook that lets you say, like, you can start the view transition in there and then await the navigation to complete. that updates the page and then it completes. So you can start with a server rendered page as long as you have some way of updating the page client side and passing that function into the view transition. Okay. It needs to hang on to the state with something. Yeah, and you can do this like, I recommend if you haven't heard about this before, I had a Svelte Summit talk on this. You can do this in regular Svelte. So in Svelte, I built a card demo where I was moving cards between the two different rows. And whenever I clicked a button to move a card to a new row, that click handler would call start view transition. Inside the callback, it would update the state row two dot append card. And then it would call await tick, which is Felt's lifecycle method to say like, hey, wait for the DOM to be updated. And that would trigger the view transition because you have a way to start it before the page is changed, make the change, wait for it to complete. And then the view transition ends and the browser would swap the card from one row to the other. That's a really nice talk, by the way. I like that it's very visual, right? Unlike this podcast, but Yeah yeah I definitely like moving my hands all around like showing where things are positioned and it like right you know audio medium Yeah It tough So when would you not use view transitions Yeah. So this is, again, you know, plug for my talk where I kind of compare between, because if you're, if you're, you've gotten this far into the podcast, you're like, wait, we already have svelte transitions. Like how do those compare? Should I use view transitions for everything? What's the deal? So I'd say like view transitions, as I mentioned, make a lot of sense for page transitions, just because those are kind of tricky to do with our current tools. And then you can also use them for those more flip animations. If you're moving elements around a page, like in my demo, I was moving a card from one row to the other. You can use view transitions for that too. I think they're just like trade-offs because you're just going to be writing these things slightly differently. So for example, with view transitions, you have to wrap each state update and start view transition. If you're using a Svelte transition, it's just like you apply it to the element specifically, animate flip. much more ergonomic. And then that will just apply anytime it moves around. That makes sense. View transitions are easier to customize with CSS media queries because you're writing your view transition customizations in CSS. It's really easy to just like... That's a good point. Different screen sizes, reduced motion, that kind of thing. Yeah, I hadn't thought about that. Because maybe I haven't written complicated enough Svelte transitions to actually run into something like this, but you could conceivably imagine that you would need to fly something in from the left if it's on a mobile screen and then from the top if it's on a desktop or whatever. Right. I think I've also seen some animation best practices. If you have a really big screen, like it can, if you're moving an element across that really big screen, that can be really disorienting. So maybe you do most of your view transitions on a mobile device when things are going to be moving a lot less. Yeah. And then, of course, the headline media query, I think, would be reduced motion. It's a lot easier to check with this as a media query. Yeah. Right. So are there other things that we should talk about when it comes to view transitions in general? I think one thing that I definitely run into as I've played with them. So I guess let's take a step back. With view transitions, you apply a view transition name if you want that flip animation. So like I said, let's say you have an avatar on one page. in CSS, you apply a view transition name avatar. And then when you start that view transition, the browser will see, oh is there something on this new page with view transition name avatar And no to like animate that between the two positions Where that gets tricky tricky is let say my card example where I have a bunch of cards They all doing very similar animations However, view transition names need to be unique. So you can't just say view transition name card because then the browser is like, okay, I'm in this new state. There's 10 things with the name card. I don't know what to move where. So that's where you have to start giving them unique names, which I have an article about how to do this. It's not too bad. where you run into issues if you want to customize. I want to customize the animation for all the cards, but there's like 52 different unique names for each of those cards. I have to target all of those in CSS. Yeah. Oh, yeah. In CSS, you can't do it with Svelte IDs in each loop or something nice. I mean, you essentially can't. Like in one of my articles, I've passed that ID through like a CSS variable and then use that to form a transition name. But the issue there is then you have this dynamic name and if I want to say, actually, all these animations should take half a second, I have to target all of those view transition pseudo elements, essentially, individually. So this is another thing where, okay, it may make more sense to use Svelte transitions, where there's trickier things you can do to apply the view transition name just in time, so only one thing has that name. But this is where view transitions have their downsides. There's proposals to like iterate on this, but it's definitely not something you use for every kind of animation in your app. Yeah. One thing to note as well is probably that we can use view transitions today. Yes. Because they're progressively enhanced. Well, it is a progressive enhancement is probably how you would say it, I guess. Yeah, I think this is a big thing because I feel like every time I post about these, people are like, oh yeah, but it's only Chrome. So like call me in two years. but that doesn't matter because the page is still going to work just fine with I think it depends on what you're using them for too I think definitely a page animation transition that's newer not everyone needs that there are animations that actually I would like to show this to everyone in that case maybe view transitions aren't a good fit I wish everything was progressively enhanced I want access to so many CSS features that I can't use. Yeah. Yeah, for sure. At least at least CSS has been like oh it so much it been getting a lot better Yeah for sure Well you blink and you be like two years passes like that And it like oh right I can use this now Yeah Sometimes I still get blindsided by like... Container queries? I mean, container queries, yeah. You can use these today. Container queries are one of the things that's like, it's just not quite there for full support. So yeah. But like, yeah, just wait a little bit longer, I guess. It is very penalizing. Okay. view transitions in a SvelteKit context. What do you have to do? I think you mentioned it briefly earlier, but maybe we can go over it again. I covered it at a high level. But yeah, I guess, so there's a new lifecycle method. Maybe in a bit we can talk about why we needed a new lifecycle method. It's called onNavigate. It's going to fire essentially just before the navigation completes. So today we have beforeNavigate, which fires before the navigation even starts. You have afterNavigate to fire after it's done. On Navigate will fire after all the data loading for the pages happened, but before the new page is actually swapped into the DOM. So this, for reasons we can get into, is a great place to put your start view transition callback. So inside there, you can do document.startviewtransition. This is where it gets a little tricky to mouth code because you kind of have to return a promise that resolves and call that inside your view transition callback and then wait for the navigation to complete. Go check out my post on the Svelte blog to see exactly what the snippet is. Yeah, that's hard to describe in words. It is. But essentially you copy-paste this into your root layout so it plays on every navigation and then you'll get a view transition on every navigation and you can customize it however you want to. I think I saw a library by, I think it was Paolo. Yes. He did a library called, what was it called? SvelteKit view transition or something. I haven't checked it out yet. Something like that. Yeah. Yeah, that's a good call out. I think it's supposed to make this a bit simpler. But yeah, like I said. Yeah, because I guess, you know, we've intentionally not abstracted this further right away. We just don't want, it's harder to remove API than to add it, right? So we didn't want to like rush into, this is how you interact with view transitions, kind of leaning on the community to figure out like how they want to abstract it. And yeah, Palo's library is a great place to start as a lot of helpers for, both for like adding this snippet I just tried to talk about. Yep. But also, as I made more complicated view transition demos, there's things you have to do, like adding view transition names at certain times, adding classes to the root of the DOM so that you can, for instance, show a different animation when you're navigating

 getting back. And his library just gives you all these hooks to do what you need to do that you would have to like implement yourself without this library. So definitely worth looking into if you're going to be doing stuff with Vue transitions. Yeah. So we'll, we'll put that in, in, in the show notes, of course. So yeah, I mean, I mean, that's all you have to do in Kit, I guess, to, to actually get it working. Yeah. Just one snippet. And then, you know, like you said, no abstraction, then the API you need to learn is the view transitions API. I feel like I bring this up every time I talk about this, but Jake Archibald's explainer on the Chrome developers, we can add that link to the show notes, but that is very thorough link at everything you can do with view transitions. And because like we're, SvelteKit is not wrapping this in any way, you have raw access to the view transition. You can do whatever you need to do. So any of those techniques, like you should be able to figure out how you want to tackle them. Kind of like you get the building blocks. Kind of like with this new Svelte 5 thing that they released. The runes, also the building blocks, right? Yeah. Or I guess maybe a closer analogy is SvelteKit forms. You provide some helpers on top of that, but it's like you're using forms. How do you submit this data? You put it in input, hidden inputs. You can attach things to the submit button. you're like learning the browser as you work with SvelteKit. Now that's a way better comparison. Yeah, I don't really want to get sucked into a room's discussion. I'm sure you need a whole episode about that. Yeah, yeah, definitely. I guess one thing I want to touch on, like I mentioned, is like why this was only really possible because we had a new SvelteKit lifecycle method. And it gets a little bit into the weeds, but personally I've like been doing these experiments since before that method landed. and there were some limitations. I think the biggest one is that when you only had before and after Navigate, you could kick off the view transition in before Navigate. But one thing I didn't mention about view transitions is when you start it, it freezes the page essentially. Because like all of a sudden your page is like a static view. Right. And that's why the recommendation is like finish the view transition as quickly as possible. Yeah. Well, if you kick it off in before Navigate and data loading still needs to happen and your API is like taking a second or two Like you're essentially leaving the user with a non-responsive page for a couple seconds. Right So with on Navigate because it fires right after data loading has finished we can resolve the view transition as quickly as possible and essentially fire it just in time That's good. and then the other thing is I ran into tons of race conditions because the view transitions API is asynchronous and before and after navigate need to run synchronously like you're just running some code so even kicking it off and before navigate without the data loading issue sometimes it wouldn't start soon enough and SvelteKit would have already transitioned the page I ran into some weird stuff with preloading so with this new step we're actually able to tell SvelteKit hey wait to finish the navigation we're starting a view transition which just, I haven't run into any race conditions after that. So it's just a lot more stable foundation to integrate on. Yeah. So this new lifecycle method on Navigate, can it be used for anything else? Or is it just for... Theoretically, I think it's very much a target. Like, you know, it's written on Navigate. It's not like kickoff view transition. It's very intentionally written as a generic entry point. And I think there was one other issue linked that it could have been useful for. I forget what it was. Yeah, I was like, what else would you want to do on navigation? I don't know. There was something it linked. Send off some events for tracking people. But you can do that anywhere else. Analytics. I mean, there's got to be authentication. But, I mean, you would do all of that on the server. Okay. Okay, so there's an open issue around access to history state linked in the view transitions issue. I can just post it in the chat. Yeah. But the user might scroll or interact with form elements while the navigation is in progress. Maybe we need a way to write to state immediately before the navigation is committed. So I don't know what that's about. I haven't reread this issue. But there are theoretically other uses for doing something right before the navigation finishes. Yeah. But the headline feature of this lifecycle is view transitions. View transitions. Yeah. And I think it's kind of unique. Like, I think other frameworks are having to add similar hooks. So it's not just SvelteKit that had to add something directly into this place. Yeah. It's like, I think Next needs something similar, for instance. And Astro probably has some wrapper around their version. Yeah, well, I think Astro had to implement some sort of basic client-side routing to get this in the first place. That makes sense, yeah. Because it's SPA only right now. Eventually it be MPA as well Yeah with the meta tags thing that you mentioned That be cool to get that for non pages as well That'd be really cool. Yeah, it'd be really impactful. I know a lot of people are being like, this will finally kill SPAs. That part's probably overblown. It is cool when you can enable capabilities for, again, regardless of your tech stack, you're able to use this because it is something a lot of people want. Yeah. And then last, I think we all had the question, but I think you already answered it. You can use it in Svelte, regular Svelte as well. You had to talk about that. So what kind of stuff did you run into in just using it for Svelte? Did you use a router or did you just bring in some random router? What was the... Well, because the demo I used didn't involve routing. And I think that's the other thing to, I think I've mentioned, but to highlight about this API is you don't need to route like it's any page change so in svelte you know i built a built a card demo and like yeah i was just swapping cards between positions so i think the one thing i ran into svelte that wasn't quite as nice as like every state update has to be wrapped and start view transition like if you want it to trigger a transition oh okay yeah because and and part of that is because there's not as nice a spot to like svelte kit has on navigate svelte doesn't have a spot where you can say like every time state changes, start a view transition. And I don't know for sure you'd want that, but that would simplify demos like that. So you can create a little helper and be like, view transition and wrap that around all your event handlers. But that's where it's a little bit more verbose than the Svelte transition version of that demo would have been. Yeah, well that makes sense. But you guys are probably familiar with like Jay on Twitter who does like all these like code pens. He's been playing around with the view transitions API for very similar things. Who is this? It's jh3y. Or might be... jh3y. It might be two y's. Two y's. I'll put it in the chat. He's been doing a very similar thing where playing around with the view transitions API, but for these, you're not navigating anywhere. You're just adding animation to a single page demo. So I think that's going to be just fun to see people play around with. And it's nice that you don't have to bring in a heavy animation library. If you just want to do a vanilla JavaScript thing like this, you can just use. This is Jay Bear right here I can see that You probably can see it It like a holographic day there Well it okay The listeners can see anyway Okay. Any other things that you want to mention with your transitions or should we move on to the scariest section of the show? Yeah, I mean, I guess the last... I'm actually prepared for the scary section. Oh, I was thinking nobody's going to have one today, so... No, I'm good. I guess to reiterate, Not everyone can view animation. It can trigger some nausea in people. So if you're building with this API, be very careful. If you're moving things around the screen a lot, look into perverse reduced motion, maybe disable the animation in that case. But as people are fond of saying, reduced motion does not mean no motion. So in the SvelteKit announcement blog post, I actually had a little snippet showing, okay, reduced motion is enabled just to a crossfade between pages because that's not any motion. instead of the slide we get when reduced motion is not asked for. So I just want to reiterate and use this responsibly, especially if you're shipping it to production. Demos can go as crazy as you want, but make sure you're making a good user experience. Yeah. Oh, good user experience doesn't mean just things flying all over the screen. That's what I always thought. I mean, I follow that too. It's like, we can make things fly now? That's so cool. Let me make everything fly. Does it mean drop downs with carousels inside of them? View transition powered carousel. I mean, I say drop down. It was like an accordion, so at least it stayed open. And honestly, it didn't look bad. Like it looked kind of good and functional, but it's implementing that would be a nightmare. If only you could use view transitions for this. I wonder if you could. I think I could use regular transitions for that because it's not changing a page. Yeah, but I wonder if you could apply the Vue transitions API to like components or switchers somehow. But you would have to, do you need the browser history or is this like completely separate? Well, I mean, since it's taking a screenshot of the page before and after, is there something the browser needs to know that it's on a new page or a new view? Or is that all done in JavaScript? I'm just confused with how the browser... Probably. I just feel like the browser needs to...

 to track it somehow. I mean, just whatever interaction you want to trigger it, you just call start view transition. Right, yeah, yeah. And the updates happen inside that. Yeah, yeah. I'm always confused. If your component or whatever you want the transition to be on is on the same page and not leaving that page state, you would just use a normal Svelte transition or CSS animation transition, like anything that's built in, because you don't need that state. but yeah couldn't the svelte transitions at some point be remade into view transitions i've actually thought about that yeah let's hear it i think there's enough i think there's something to do there i think there's like something you could do with view transitions as an action that would be interesting to like automatically generate those view transition names and stuff like that i'm not sure transitions can be replaced with them just add it to paolo's library. I think it's actually, I think he actually has an action called transition. Yeah. So you just put use transition and then header. But yeah, I think again, like the tricky, another limitation, you can only have one view transition happening at once, whereas that's not really true for spell transitions. But could, could you do, I guess you could still do multiple things at the same time, right? Like moves, multiple things, but no, I get it. I click on the page, five different buttons. those all start remove an element triggering a spell transition. Yeah. That wouldn't work with Vue transitions. Yeah. Okay. Gotcha. I think, you know, another tool in your toolbox where web devs, we like to be like, what can I use this on? Can I use this on everything? Yes. The answer is always yes. Always. Yeah. Tradeoffs and right tool for the job. Yeah. Cool. You had something prepared here for this next session. We're moving on to the unpopular opinions section. And Anthony isn't here. He always has an unpopular opinion. He's always ready. I don't have one. I almost never have one. I'm bad at the unpopular opinion. Actually, I might have one today. But let's hear it from you first, Jeff. What's your opinion? So my unpopular opinion is you shouldn't be writing ARIA attributes if you aren't testing with a screen reader. Interesting. And I think there's probably caveats to that. But what is your recommended screen reader What what operating system are you on Mac at work so i probably start with voiceover the voiceover and then what would you use on windows just windows nvda n n n n n as in night v d a i guess that's not that's confusing No, and healthy I. Yeah, so it's NVIDIA's stock ticker. NVIDIA, okay. But I guess let me give some background on this. So if you don't know, ARIA attributes are used to expose additional information to screen readers and other assistive technology. Maybe a common one is like ARIA label. If you have a button with an icon in it, that button needs some sort of text associated with it. So if a screen reader comes to it, it knows, oh, this means remove. So one way of exposing that information to the screen reader, if that text is not inside the button, is adding an aria label equals remove. But the reason I think you should be testing with the screen reader if you're writing these attributes is because it's way too easy to either misuse them or make assumptions about how they work and then not test them and be like, oh, this is actually either not doing anything, best case or worst case, making things worse and confusing. So I think the analogy I draw, like you wouldn't write a bunch of javascript code and just ship it well maybe you would wouldn't you though but like write interactions on a web page and be like yeah i don't need to test that out it probably works fine right yeah similar with like you're writing all these attributes that are only for screen readers and be like yeah that's probably fine without verifying that yourself and once you get good enough i've tested with screen readers before i'm pretty sure i know where an aria label is valid and what it's going to do so in that case yeah i'll just i'll just throw the song because i know it works but if you're starting out making sure that you know what you're doing yeah don't stick it on everything like that that yeah that one of the rules is uh no aria is better than bad aria yep don't stick it on if you're not willing to do the work to figure out is this actually doing what i think it's going to do and i also find aria in general can be confusing there are confusing documentation out there. And even if you go to the W3C and look at like what you're supposed to do for accessibility for some things, it's not always straightforward and it's not always explicit like this is the right thing to do And so there not a lot of nuance Yes and no like this and this case So like just it it very hard And I bet you you especially running in running into a lot of that with building components, like building a design system. It's like, oh, I'm the one who has to make an accessible dropdown carousel. Correct. Yeah. I have a question about this because I haven't really tried this, but I've heard and read that different screen readers do things differently. So how do you actually make sure that they work for all of them? Is that possible? Or do they differ so little that it's just like small things that don't work? There are significant differences. Oh, how fun. but that i think that's where i try not to start with and you should be testing in multiple screen readers because like a lot of time just getting people to use one really helps it's a burden makes sense i think you know it is a good call out and you should recognize try not to over optimize you start with voiceover oh i'm gonna make this exactly tuned to voiceovers quirks right might get you into trouble but yeah i don't know you can find a lot of there are some very dedicated accessibility testers who are like, here's all the differences. I tested the screen reader and browser combinations. And here's how these ARIA attributes behave. I tried to vouch to get somebody that was just specifically for accessibility on my team. I'm the only engineer. I have one designer and I'm the only engineer. And so it's just accessibility is a full-time job, I feel like. And you need somebody that can just test and do that kind of stuff. We are using an open source library that has accessibility testing built in. I don't know that I trust them to fully do all of that perfectly, but I at least kind of feel like it's the burden is not fully on me. But I still like make sure that things work correctly to the best of my ability and look them up and make sure things are done correctly according to W3C. But I watched a video last night and they're like, we always get it wrong. Is it WC3 or W3C? W3C, we always mix up like which one is W3C? I think it's W3C. Okay, I was saying it right. Now I think the video has made me like say it. It's funny. I think that a I don know I think definitely if you able to get the resources to have someone dedicated to testing this stuff especially they so far down the rabbit hole you can go So it a balance Because I think also accessibility is everyone's responsibility, but competing priorities. You can go really deep. And it's hard to know. If we built something more accessible, maybe we would get more users because they're actually able to do the things they want to do. Who are we excluding unintentionally? Yeah. I think that's absolutely correct. But yeah, don't use ARIA attributes if you're not using the screen reader. And like I've said before, if you know nothing about accessibility, start by running Axe DevTools on your page. That will catch low-hanging fruit. Make sure you can tab around and use the page without a mouse and then learn how to use a screen reader. Those will just get you, so far, just getting some sort of baseline accessibility in there. I feel like for a lot of pages that are just content-based, it's not super tricky to get it working. It's mostly for more interactive SPA-style applications. That's when it gets really, really hard, I think. Yeah, and I think there's definitely types of applications that I'm like, I don't know how I'd make that accessible. I'm sure there's people who've done it, but like... Right. I'm sure there's ways to do it, but it's outside of what I focused on before. Stuff like, I don't know, if you've used Excalibur, where you're like drawing flowcharts and stuff. Okay. Brittany, do you have an unpopular opinion? No. I don't think so. Only popular opinions. I have one. Maybe it's not unpopular, but I'm going to say this. Limitations are probably good. In the sense that you don't want multiple ways of doing the same thing. I think that can result in fractures in, for example, a framework community, not a community, but like an ecosystem. I'm just talking generally. Oh, we're not talking about anything specific at all. No, I'm really not, though. I'm really not. So just like if you have six or 10 different ways of doing something, then everyone has to know all of these six to 10 different ways because you can always encounter them. So I feel like that limitations are good.

 Maybe that's not popular, though. Limitations to doing things inside frameworks? Yeah, it could be, for example, like the view. View 3 is an example where you can do things in a lot of different ways. I'm not an expert on view, but this is from what I've heard. And it's not weird that they ended up in this place where you can do things in multiple ways. But it's created this kind of split between view 2 and view 3. so i don't know maybe that's i feel like it that's that's not good in the long run but then how would you make changes it's a trade-off right oh of course right yeah but yeah but yeah i i prefer to only have the one blessed way of doing something you can have the other ways but only if you have to go through multiple hoops making it really cumbersome and tiring to do it that's my that's my unpopular opinion okay yeah i think it's it's a balance right because only one way to do things great for learning great for like consistency like you can jump into a project i know how this works because yes exactly things i mean i i have a react code base at work right like how fun yeah i mean i don't mind react that's a different maybe unpopular opinion but like at least here they are very devoted to backwards compatibility which has been like great for them because you're you're able to keep upgrading your application and not be like oh we have to rewrite all our class code to hooks but then at the cost of consistency and you might have one code written one way and one code written another and especially as people are coming up if they're only taught to use a certain api and it's like how does this work we have a whole app still on classes. Yeah. I think they're pretty common. But like if React did a full break to just hooks as the only thing supported, that app would probably still be on classes and they just wouldn't... No, because we also still have AngularJS in our focus. Yeah, so do we. I think, yeah, this thing is probably more common. Yeah. I mean, yeah, you can go both ways with it. And I don't think it matters. They're just trade-offs. I think it is good when a framework has an opinion. That the point of a framework Their opinion is Guardrails But of course any framework gets to a point where it like okay do we change our opinion or do we have two opinions react is a framework not a library there's my unpopular opinion uh-oh i'm not even gonna get that in the show back on this podcast maybe this should uh this segment should just be opinions probably probably opinions yeah yeah Give me an opinion. They're not very unpopular anymore. Well, Brittany, since you didn't have an opinion, let's do a pick. Do you have one? Are there picks? Oh. Did I put you on the spot here? Oh, I don't know. I think so. So I've been using Flowbyte. It's the open source library that we've been using. And I really like Flowbyte. And but its underlying thing is Tailwind, which I mean, people love to love or hate. And I don't know. It has made the developer experience so much better compared to what we had before. And there's also this thing that I did not know about. And maybe one of you know what it is. You can put a comment in your Svelte markup or wherever in your Svelte component and do at component and then start writing like documentation. And it gives you IntelliSense for that. What parses that and does that? I think that's built into the Svelte language tools or the extension. So is that the Svelte extension? I think so. And I just never knew about it because I like, it is incredible. I found the FAQ entry. It's not super well documented. Maybe we should do a stream about it so more people can learn about it because it is nice. I rarely use it. I have a front end guild that we do for the design system and I showed them this today and they're like, oh, can we start using that in our code base? I'm like, I actually don't know what parses this because I'm like, that's markdown. Why is there Markdown? I'm like, we don't have a Markdown thing in Svelte. Like, what is reading this? And then I started thinking about it. I'm like, wait a minute. Yeah, it looks like it's any editors that use the Svelte language server should be able to interpret it. Yeah, that's right. So VS Code, obviously. Okay, so the Svelte language server and the extension is what does it? The extension is what integrates with the language server Okay So I think there other editors that have their own extensions that also use the language server So cool It is so cool Yeah That my pick It really nice That's a good pick. That's a super good pick. I don't know if I can even compete. All right. Jeff, go ahead. Okay. My pick is The Wheel of Time Season 2. Oh, I just picked that. Maybe. Maybe it's not out yet. Your episode wasn't out yet. But I just... No, you picked Silo. No, I've watched the whole thing now. I think I picked it a couple of episodes ago. Season two is still airing. Yeah. I think... Aren't you talking about Silo? I was talking about Silo, too. But did I not pick Wheel of Time? Maybe it was on Coding Cat. I do too many podcasts. Could have been. I don't know. Too many podcasts. Yeah. Okay. But yeah, so the Wheel of Time season two, Amazon fantasy show. I enjoyed season one, but I think the ending got a little screwed up, especially with COVID stuff, and they lost an actor. Yeah. But I've been really enjoying season two. I think just everything stepped up a level. To me, this is a really controversial opinion because I really do not like the show. I feel like I remember you talking about it. Yeah. Have you read the books? Yeah. Okay. I'm the kind of person who's fascinated by how people adapt something. Okay. Yep. Yeah. To me, it's all... It's probably because I kind of read the books semi-recently. So it's all like everything happens in the wrong order for me. It's, I don't know. Are the episodes still coming out though? I thought the season was over. It's not done. Yeah, it's still coming out. Because it's getting good now. It is definitely getting better. Yeah, we were talking about it though because you were just talking about the books again. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I know Kev went off on this rant. but uh yeah it is good i can get how you know if you're really i can get how people wouldn't like the adaptation choices to me it's just interesting like how do you take a thousand pages or like more than that and like 10 books what works on the page doesn't work on the screen visuals versus text and like yeah essentially how are they're remixing it and i think i'm going to be especially interested as they hopefully get to continue because i remember some of the middle books being a little slow and very interesting how they're going to speed through. The famed slog I think it called So yeah I been really enjoying that Yeah No I been enjoying it as well even though i don like the the way they done it but i like i a super like fantasy fan so i just have to watch it i had to watch the witcher as well even though i didn't like it so yeah i haven't read those books either i haven't i started to read the will of time books and i think i got a couple chapters in i just couldn't get into the books i don't know why yeah they're a bit so the way he writes it's it's like it's very descriptive things take a very long time to progress like lord of the rings descriptive like because that yeah except there's 14 books i love the hobbit but then like i got to lord of the rings and i'm like i it took me a very long time to finish lord of the rings like i just couldn't yeah it took me a while to read the books i'm also like i can't really binge a series so i'd like read a book and then i take a few months off yeah read the next one but i do wonder how this i guess britney it sounds like you're enjoying it because it feels like there's some like world building stuff where i'm like i don't know if you'd entirely if there's stuff you're missing if you if you're not super familiar with the books because the world is huge as well and then they just randomly introduce someone from i don't know i'm just gonna you just gotta be along for the ride be like yes well like game of thrones i read those books and so i think i would probably get into it if i just spent the time to get invested but yeah and then you know your three books and you're like well i have to keep reading of our three thousand pages only seven more to go no but definitely read it if you get past i think maybe you like the first half of of the first book okay that that then i've heard people have better luck with the audiobooks sometimes too because that's just like push you through yeah exactly you'll love it you're just you know there's just some boring parts i think like i didn't know enough of the characters so you need to get invested in some of the characters in the first part and they have to introduce you to everybody and that's the part that's like boring to me well it could be now that you've seen the show it's like you have some of that investment Yeah. Yeah. Only they're not the same character. No. Yeah, it's different. Let's move on. Or rather, I'll do a pick. My pick is the Wheel of Time books. No, my pick is a series called The Winter King. It is, I think.

 based in the UK somewhere. And it features, it's like a spin on the Arthur story, kind of, if that makes sense. It's pretty good. I've been enjoying it. Just came out, started airing a couple of weeks ago. What's it on? Oh, that is a good question. I do not know. Probably differs. I'm like, I've never heard of it. Yeah, but it probably differs from Sweden and the US. So it's not like a streaming service. It's not Netflix. I think it is. According to Wikipedia, it's on MGM Plus, which is a streaming service I didn't know existed. Oh, yeah. I had no idea it existed. They just keep popping up. Yeah. Yeah, and they're going to die out, I think, at some point. Disney is going to take them all. Unpopular opinion right there. All right. I think that's it for the show. So Jeff, thanks for joining us again. JEFFREY BROWN Yeah it was great to be back JEFFREY BROWN Awesome talking about the Vue Transitions API because we chatted about this I think one or two weeks ago and we really had no idea what we were talking about I think Or at least I didn I was wildly guessing things that I thought I remembered, but yeah. Well, good content either way. Yeah, exactly. Yeah, so thank you again, and thanks to all the listeners. Before we go, Jeff, where can people find you, of course? Yeah, so the best place to find me is on my website. that's jeffrich.net g-e-o-f-f-r-i-c-h.net I have a link there pointing you to wherever you can find me on social media so still on Twitter and also Mastodon are the ones I'm mainly posting on and I have if you haven't read my work before I have a ton of blog posts on Svelte and SvelteKit a bunch of stuff about view transitions that might be worth a read. Awesome all right thanks everyone and we will see and we will not see you you will see us next week and maybe hear us next week and uh bye bye hey it's cover if you like the show please drop a review on your favorite podcast player it would help out a lot thanks