 so let's start let's go so I would like to show you a few tips actually that I use in my day-to-day life using Svelte probably you know all of them but let's see so the first one is uh npx as they create demo tips to create an application who you who of you use a CLI tool to create an application Very good. So everyone knows. What I usually do is a minimal reproduction. I usually use TypeScript. You will see why later. And I usually tick a few box. Prettier to have something nice. ESLint to have something nice. Vtest to have something nice. And Tailwind not to have something nice. And then I use PNPM because it's what I use usually. So the first tip was SV, right? And then when I'm in my editor here in my console, sorry, I read the first line and it's written CD demo tips. Yes, and I go inside. And here I use cursor space point. Enter. Thank you very much. Here I open my editor, hopefully fast. Yeah. And you see on the left side, you see on the left side, I have a quite small explorer because I like to nest files under files. Do you know this feature? Not a lot, so very good. So in package.json, I can open it like it's a folder. I can even do also a small zoom. And like this, I don't see 20 million files. This, exactly. And this is in package.json. No, no. There's a settings called file nesting patterns. and inside of it, you just describe what you want to see. I want to see two files, usually, package.json and vidconfig.ts, where I can hide under the svelte.config.js. Then what you should do just after any staging repo is to do a git init, right? To do a git init just after. I like this very small extension here because I like icons. so i can put work in progress and i can put it uh hello and this will just fill my text input to be able to commit i don't use ai it's my own build stuff you know but this one okay i will not publish it and you remember i i checked a few things at the beginning of the cli so i can now I can now do a pnpm check. Pnpm check. What is it doing? It's checking all my code. My TypeScript is valid. My HTML is valid. Everything is good It good because I just started the CLI So this one was I can also PMTN test and PMTN test will run VTest We look at all the file ending with spec or with test.ts. And the two are passing. Very good. And very interesting stuff is that one is in source demo. If you click on it, I can see that we have a describe sum. OK, very good. And we have one which is nice. it's under route page to test the page. On this one, I can see it should run the H1, under the page and okay. It's passing, so it's very good. Finally, I can pnpm run dev. I don't use run because it's not npm. Okay, it's working. The test was also, please. You are still counting how many I have. Now I have my whole application. It's compact, condensed. What I usually do is to run some GitHub actions on it. And you know you work with YAML files maybe, so it's difficult to know all the syntax. So what you should do, you should have a repo where you have a copy-paste thing. Copy, I come here. I click new file. I don't know if you know this, but you can paste here with some slash the folders. Very useful also. and in here you go inside the file copy paste okay i have my yaml file all ready with all the right spaces because this is the most annoying part in yaml file is to have the right spaces and just to go through it very quickly i can check out my code i install pnpm i set up all the nodes and i put pnpm in the cache pnpm i i linked i check i build i test and from time to time i test with playwright as well but like this i copy paste and it's very easy to go and then i have a full repository almost working one last thing probably i'm at six minutes right i will add another file here because now we have only one route page one slash plus page dot felt yes and in here i put a script like tl because i started typescript and i did a lot of svelte 3 and svelte 4 so i'm used to do export let data right and i never know what is the new syntax so i do export data and because i like types i will put that it's of type page data coming from the dot slash types so that everything is typed and i'm happy the only problem is that now we are in the svelte 5 era and i you know that a lot of ai tools are not really ready for svelte 5 but me i rely on some people who did the script for me is the Svelte migration syntax If you run this it will generate you the Svelte 5 syntax Usually you do this, so I write in Svelte 4 and I switch to Svelte 5. After some point, I will get used to this syntax and perfect. Actually, I never create a page like this, so I will delete everything. Maybe you can undo a ding. what I do and you should do the same is right click on the on the route folder and you have this valid kit files here it's coming from the default extension for spell kit and you say can you can click create route and here I put page one Hunter and it's asking me oh what do you want here I want a plus page that's failed I want a universal load and you can just tick boxes and everything coming out of the box and when you do this the plugin is quite cool because it's already writing in svelte 5 syntax and and you have in the plus page.ts already the load function already with the satisfy page load so you don't have to worry about anything right it's small tips but i wanted to give you all of them today thank you Thank you. Who knew all the tips? All right, so it was just good. Any additional question? Because now it's not in my five minutes. Yes. Actually, right now I'm in my cursor timing, let's say. uh two years ago i started more in copilot vs code then i started cursor i hated it i came back to vs code and six months later i tried again cursor and i liked a lot the flow that they had and since then i'm still keeping cursor i quite like the the way to interact with the agent not agents and from time to time i turn off completely ai and i like to code myself alone taking time enjoying my own code other question but this is really uh it's really the defaults velt extension so i think everyone has it yeah it's just very good it's really the default one so you do the command stuff and then migrate it. And actually, I migrated the Svelte 4 to Svelte 5 application without changing anything, just the version number basically, and there is one or two breaking changes that you have to change But I kept all the Svelte 4 syntax and one by one I changed my file when i need to go and tune them this is my my way of doing it yes other question uh do you think uh using so inspector would be also not there I didn't use it a lot I tried it when it started the Svelte inspector but uh maybe I'm still very used to my own code base so I don't see the need of using it maybe if I would change more often code base this would be more useful I don't know I didn't use it a lot so and today you need to install a package right no it's built in it's built in now so it's a plugin so you need to install if you use Svelte or Svelte field you already have it okay it's inside okay I think so maybe it will be part of the next 10 tips anything else yes do you think it's also good idea to still have these page load types when they are automatically in PS code. What do you mean? You need to put code at some point here. No. Same thing with this and with base-based data, even if you don't have the empty points from the types, they are automatically. Yeah, so there is this automatic thing, but I like to type stuff. I got that. Think about another question. No, another small trick is I think they changed it recently that you don't need to have page data now for people who like love TypeScript. You have now page pops exactly. And from here, but like this is it's a smaller import. Other questions or maybe we can go and have medium cold pizza. Thank you.