 Namaste. First I'd like to thank Sivalt Society for providing me with this opportunity to present my opinion with you guys and today I'm going to talk about why I switched from react to Sivalt.js. These are entirely my personal opinions it doesn't mean that you'll have to switch from react to Sivalt yourself. What I present here are my personal preference that I felt while using react and using shivalt.js. So my suggestion to you is you personally try it once try both the frameworks and then stick to the one that solves your need and that also works great for you. So let's get started with why shivalt. The first and foremost thing that I found out about shivalt is that it's a lot easier to get started with than other frameworks like Vue.js and React.js and that is because significant part of the framework is plain old HTML, JS and CSS which is easy to understand and which most of the developers if they are looking at the front-end they have already learned and even if they have not learned HTML, CSS and JS before it is easier to get started with shivert.js and if you know shivert.js it's easy to learn or you know already significant portion of HTML CSS and JS and if you know CSS JS and HTML then you already know significant portion of the shivald JS That is why it is easy to get started with shivald JS We can see here the example a react component and a shivald JS component both of which do the same thing. In the left we can see a react JS component a simplest functional component that has some props and in the right we can see a shivertjs component which has the same props. In the left hand side we can see that it is a totally new syntax so for reactjs there is something called jsx that is we can write HTML codes inside JavaScript and it has a completely new syntax we have to define a function and then pass in props and then we get here props start props start stop props start total those kind of thing comparing same thing with sivalt component here we have a script tag and then here separately we have HTML and this looks a lot similar to HTML syntax there are no extra syntax Just we are defining a variable with export keyword and then we can use these variables in our HTML like we are doing with HTML templating engines and it's very easy to understand because everything looks similar to HTML, CSS and JavaScript. Next shivalt scooping styles inside a component is very easy That is because in each shivert component we can use a style tag where we can apply css and that css is scoped only to those components and we can even apply global css by creating a global css file we can directly write here style and pass our css and these styles will be scoped only in this component and react has similar thing we can directly import CSS inside this component and so on however it is not as straightforward as the Sivart.js. With Sivart there is a built-in store for data sharing across components and right now react.js also has a built-in context API however when I started with react.js there were lots of options for state management but there wasn't any built-in solution so there were solutions like Redux, Movax, Flux and I had to learn a lot like I had to check out Movax I had to check out Redux and I finally stuck with Redux in react but that had lots of overhead later I tried Movax and I switched to which was a bit easier than Redux. However with CWALT JS there is a built-in store API that we can easily use to share data across components and another important thing about CWALT JS is that it is a compiler not a framework and what the difference between framework and compiler So framework provides us with set of tools that are available even in the runtime so react application when built completely the bundle contains not only our code but the framework itself because it requires framework to run in the runtime however with shival.js that is not the case a shival.js application when built it will compile the code that we have written in the syntax of cvalt.js that is mostly javascript html and css and some other cvalt apis that gets compiled down to css html and javascript so that there is no framework overhead in our application so there is no other code except the codes that we have written which is compiled into proper javascript and css and HTML. So this is what makes shivert.js faster during build time as well as in runtime. Thank you everyone for watching this video. I hope this will give you some idea about what shivert.js is and then again finally what I suggest is please try it yourself before sticking to it because someone else said so. Try it yourself. Try both the frameworks react.js and shivert.js. Try it both and stick to the one that solves your needs, that solves your problem and also that is easier for you to work with and that technology should speak to you so that you not only solve your problem, you enjoy doing it. Thank you. See you again.