 So we can use everything we learned so far to test the to-do component. The only thing we're going to learn is how to pass props to a component. And let's add the test. To-do test TS. And then let's specify the path by pressing P in our terminal. And we can say source components tests. And now we should be watching this file. and we should get an error because we don't have any tests so if i scroll here first we're going to test if the to do displays the to do item and you can argue if this is an implementation detail because basically we're testing if svelte does its job right and we shouldn't be testing the framework but we're just getting some practice so first let's import the component import to do from to do svelte and then let's add our test should display to do item and pass it a function and then let's create the to do i'm going to give it an id and a text and i'm going to say completed is false and then let's declare the props so it's easier to pass them we can just spread them edit to do and we can just say just function that's used for mocking functions and we can also pass in an empty function and it would be fine but you can use this remove to do just function complete to do just function and it also has a duration prop at zero right we can fix this code here and let me just show you for example if i go to to do svelte here are our props so we have have a to do complete to do remove to do edit to do and a duration so we can close this and then let's render the component right so we're rendering the to do and first we're passing the to do itself right and then we can spread other props we don't care about and because we're not testing the logic here because this logic lives in our parent we just have to satisfy it or it's going to complain that it requires those props and then we can assert if these functions are called because we not testing the logic here but the component itself right Yeah so we can do an assertion We can say expect screen Let just import it first We can say screen from testing library, get by text. And we can say to do case insensitive, to be in the document. And our test should be passing. That's awesome. So we're going to be repeating this logic across our test and it's going to get tedious. So let's refactor it into its own helper function. First, let me just add spacing here because I like to be neat and tidy. And if we go here, we can see in the example, we're just creating a function, renderTodo that accepts a todo. And then we're going to cut the props and our render method. and then we're just going to return the props. And instead of let to do, now we're going to use our function, render to do, and we're going to pass the to do item as a prop, and our test should be passing. So let's add a test if the user is able to check and uncheck a to do item. So we're going to test this, right? So let me just scroll here, and then we're going to add a new test. Test should be able to check and uncheck to do item as completed. Since we're using fire event, we're going to have to say async and then we can just copy creating the to do. you can say let to do input screen get by test id then we can await let's just import the right one testing library we're going to say click to do input so we've selected it right and we're saying click and now we need to make sure it's actually checked right so expect to do input to be checked and then we need to make sure it's unchecked so we can say await fire event click the same to do input And then we expect the to do input not to be checked And our test should be passing. So another thing I want to test is if the to do item has a class of completed when checked. So if we look here, so pay attention to this, should have a class of completed. And that gives us the animation we're seeing here, right? So we can go back and we can scroll down here. This test should be simple. This should have class of completed when checked. Then we also have an async function and let's again render the to-do, but this time we want to make sure completed is true. So we can say to do item screen get by text. To do item. So let's expect to do item to have class. And these methods are really intuitive as you can see. Let's just make it fail first, right? Because you should make your test always fail first. And it should fail. And if you look here, should have class of completed when checked. Expected element to have class completed. but it received this junk right so you can just say true and it's passing awesome so let's test it the two item gets updated if you press the enter or escape key because that's how it works right because we're here and if we're editing it or something we can press escape or enter and it should invoke the function to edit it to do right and that's all we're testing we're not really testing the logic but if it's invoking the function that's an important thing to remember so if we scroll down here let's say those tests test should update to do item when you press enter it is going to be async yes so we can destructure the edit to do from the props we exported we can say render to do actually just paste the one from here and it should be fine and we say to do item screen get by text to do item say await fire event oh double click my bad double click to do item because that how we get into the editing state so we're literally selecting the to do item and then getting into the editing state. So we can get the editing input and that's the input right here that appears when you're editing the item. Yeah so let's get that. Let editing input screen get by test ID and then we can await fire went key down on which element did the input and what key was pressed enter and it's simple as that so we just want to make sure this is called so we can say expect edit to do to have been called and they should pass so let's add the other one so this should update to do item when you press escape and this is also async and let's do the same thing I think we can even here let's just copy it and then let's query the item screen get by text to do item fire event double click to the item and say let editing input screen get by test ID and then we can await fire event key down the editing input and what key is it this time it's escape of course and it's literally the same code and then we can expect edit to do to have been called. Yeah, and it should pass. So that's it for testing the to-do component.