 So let's test filtering the to-dos. So in this test, we're going to test if the to-do items are filtered properly. So you can see it here. And we're also going to make sure that the class of selected is being applied to the filter that's currently active. So if we go back here, we can start by creating a new test. So we can say filter to-dos test, then let's hide it. And again, let's press P, source components, tests, filtertodos, test.ts. And that's awesome. So let's look at an example. So this is our simple render filter todos. We're just going to query them and we're going to return them so we can make assertions. So let's import the function, I mean component. So filter todos from filtertodos.swelt. And then let's create the renderFilter function. It going to accept a selected filter We going to have props select the filter and the set filter method which is going to be a dummy function and then let render it and let's spread the props so now we just have to query all the elements so the filter all element say screen and I always forget to import this. So let's say screen get by text and then we can say all and basically we can just copy this line like this say filter active element it should be active filter completed element this should be completed and then let's just return so filter the all filter active filter completed element and let just tidy this up And then we can add our first test So this is going to be verbose but doesn mean complicated just a lot of repetitive code so you can say test only all filter has selected styles pass it a function and then we can plug the methods we need we can say let Get filter all element, filter active element, filter completed element. So from our render filter todos and we're going to pass all and then we can do an assertion. So we can expect filter all element to have class selected. We can expect filter active element not to have the class of selected, right? And we also, let's just copy this. And we can say filter completed element not have class of selected And our first test should be passing So that awesome So we just need to do this for the others So we can say test only active filter selected styles Yeah, so we can copy everything we had before. As we should say, but it's not going to be all. is going to be active and then filter all element shouldn't have the class selected, right? And the others should besides the last one. Okay, so let's see if the test passes and that's awesome. So we can do another test. Only completed filter has selected styles. And then we can just repeat everything, right? So you can Ctrl L, you can paste, and it's not active, but it's completed. So the first one shouldn't have the selected, the second one shouldn't have the class of selected, and the last one should have the class of selected. Yeah, so let's just run our test. All our tests are working.