 So what is a JavaScript test? To learn that we're going to build our own testing framework. And don't worry, it's a couple of lines of code and it's going to be really simple, just so you can understand what really a test is. And I want to give a credit here to Kenzie Dodds and his amazing blog post, but really what is a JavaScript test? And I highly encourage you to read this after you're done. So you're also going to need Node.js to run the examples and everything else in this project, because we're in the JavaScript ecosystem, right? So when you have Node, you can just type in your terminal node followed by the file name. So you can go to node and you can download the LTS version which is the latest stable one and you're good to go. Okay so what's the simplest test that we can write and inside here I'm in a tutorial folder and I'm going to create a file that's example.js and I'm going to open the terminal down here. So let's create a function that's adding two numbers it's going to be a and b and it's going to return a plus b right so we can say the actual result is going to be should be 4 right so the expected result is 4 and then we can say if actual doesn equal expected we can throw an error throw new error you can say the backticks and then we can use the way we voice we can say actual is not equal to expected and of course if you want to see this error we have to be bad at maths and of course i'm not doing this on purpose right because we're all really amazing at maths. So we can type node example.js and we should see a beautiful error. So 4 is not equal to 5 and this is awesome. But I think we can improve this already and we already made an assertion. So if I scroll down here we can build our own assertion library. After all the limit is our imagination. So let's create a nicer API to work with. So let me just clear the terminal here because it's distracting. We're just going to move this logic inside of an expect function that's just going to be a simple helper so we can write function expect is going to accept an actual argument and then it's going to return something you want to assert on so we can do anything this can be to be to have length or whatever you want like you can really have fun with this if you want. So we want to be expected And then we just going to cut this part and paste it right here And that all So let take this code So it just like in the example Let's paste it here. And then we can simply say, expect actual to be expected. Right. And then we can save. And again, if we run it, I'm just going to press the up arrow to get the latest command. Here is our beautiful error. 4 is not equal to 5. This looks decent right, but we really don't get any feedback. We don't know what error or test is failing. Let's improve this. So if I scroll down here We can see a further example here We have our sum and here is another helper function that's test that accepts a title and a callback and It's just going to be inside the try and catch block and give us more information about our tests and then we can encapsulate the logic of our test in a more useful fashion and that's going to be awesome. So let me just clear the terminal here and let's write the Tailbar function so we can say function test saves title callback we can say try we want to run the callback and if that successful we can just let me copy this part It going to be easier We can just say that it successful But if it fails, we can catch the error. And then we can say console error. And you can even format this and make it prettier using something like chalk or whatever else. Like we're going to see later when we write tests how the output looks prettier. then we can say console error error and we have the expect here which is the same didn't change anything and now instead of writing these things here we can just encapsulate everything we can just say test we can give it a label some ads numbers and then we pass it a function and then let's just move and first we're going to make it fail and let's also move our assertion right so it's like that let's save and let's run it so it should fail beautiful and now we know which test failed so it says some adds numbers error 4 is not equal to 5 clear the terminal and then we can make the test pass run it some as numbers this is really an awesome way to learn testing