 So great job on making it so far. So the last component we have to test is clearing the to-do items component. So for testing the clear to-do component we want to test if it's hidden if there are no completed to-do items and visible otherwise. So we can see like this and there's no reason for the clear completed to be visible if there are no completed to-do's right. So if we complete even one we can see it appears again. So that's what we're going to test. So yeah so let's go go back to the post and we can start by creating our last test. So you can say clear todos test yes and then let's just import a component clear todos from clear todos svelte and then let's create our helper function render completed todos. We're going to complete a todos argument as zero by default. We're also going to have props, clear completed, it's an empty function and the completed to do is right. And then we can render it and just spread the props and return the props. Yes, awesome. So let's add our first test. So it should be hidden if there are no completed todos. That's a function. Let me just scroll so you can see what's going on. And then we can render the component Render completed todos We can pass in the amount and then let query the clear button element We can say screen Let import it Get by role right Say button then you can assert that the clear button element should have a class of hidden right because it's how it works and it should pass so let's see but i forgot one thing i forgot to go to source components this clear to do test ts now it works so should be hidden if there are no completed to-dos. So let's test the opposite. So let's test should be visible if there is at least one completed to-do item. So let's add a function and we can render to-dos. We can say it's one. And we can say the same thing of querying the clear button element. Say screen get by role button. And let's do the assertion. Clear button element to not have a class of hidden. So if we save it around the test, it passes. That's awesome. So congrats. So that's all of our tests. So we can press A in the terminal to run all the tests. And all of our tests are passing. So awesome. Awesome, I hope you have more confidence now.