 Hello everyone, welcome to Publicis APN again. It's a great pleasure to see you. This is our second, yeah, this is the second time that we're hosting an event and hopefully we're going to have more of this event coming up soon. In case you need the password to log into our Wi-Fi, this is the chance that you get now. You have one minute before I change the slide. Are you all good? Yep. Cool. And because I've been asked by the health and safety team to go through these very, very informative slides, in case of an emergency, we need to evacuate the building, as you'll know. Now, the way that we do that is there are two kind of like sets of stairs in this direction where the toilets are. Pretty much just follow me. This time around, last time we had a couple of volunteers to help us, but this time it's just me. So just follow me. We're going to go outside over to exit. So the assembly point is on this side of the road and then one of these side complex roads up there. We're good. So hopefully we're not going to have... Does anybody have any mobility issues, by the way, or requires any special assistance? no no good right okay cool um yeah so we are yes we are here in the mimicry one of those staircase so who are we publicity sapient is one of those companies it's a digital agency so we are part of publicist group which is a kind of like a family of different companies together we mainly um do like digital products uh so we have our creatives that they are part of the marketing and design team you also have our software engineers and then we work with different clients um and uh mainly you know um i suppose you know yeah we kind of like you know um we provide pretty much technical people to different companies to enhance your products etc Before I move to the other slide actually we have a special special person with us today and I'm really glad that he joined us. His name is Richard. He's there. Richard used to be the director of our software engineering team here at Publicis Sapient. Unfortunately, he left us during the pandemic. We didn't really get the chance to say goodbye to him properly. So if you can join me to give him a big round of applause. When I joined Toply Sapien, that was because of this gentleman here. At the time before the pandemic, we were all like a family. And that's, again, because of this person here. We all kind of like used to gather on Friday afternoons. afternoons, he had a negotiation with our clients that all the XT community would come together and we used to do like our catch-ups, monthly catch-ups, and then have our team bonding activities. It was probably the best times. We don't have that anymore, unfortunately. As is the pandemic, we kind of like became segregated in different groups. But yeah, that was definitely, you know, memories that are worth keeping. Thank you so much. You destroyed your family, I would say. he's leaving dude his departure dude so yeah I'll pass it to Akash to give you the lots of the boring stuff yeah give it up to Nico and the publicist group for hosting us today firstly I guess I'm not forcing you to clap we genuinely have a lot of difficulty in finding venues so yeah thanks Nico for arranging that as well point of conduct I think if you go on the website it's pretty straightforward we tolerate no form of harassment here of course um if you want to like confide in someone um there's scott who is the main lead guy for svelte london uh there's me uh akash who you can reach out to or like willow as well uh who will help us from this meetup and kane as well yeah sorry so yeah um yeah reach out to any of them if you want to and yeah agenda for this evening so firstly thanks to all of you for coming around on before the Easter holiday for a Svelte meetup nonetheless and yeah I think we all pretty excited to see what on today so firstly Lowell is gonna give a talk about everything old is new again I think it about his experience with Swell If you don know Lowell and his work you should check out Sharp on GitHub I think you must have used it in some form in the past. And then Nico. So yeah, I don't think Nico introduced himself well, but then I think he's going to do that during his part of the talk where he's going to talk about building an AI chatbot with SwellKit. So yeah, Lowell, why don't you come on stage then? Oh, it's a Mac. Is it going to work? Is it going to work? Is it going to work? All right. All right. Thank you very much. My name is Laval Folli and I'll be talking to you today about everything old is new again. You might recognize my name because I maintain a library called Sharp. So a quick show of hands. Who in the room here has heard of Sharp? I've told everyone about it. And have you actually used it? Keep your hand up if you used it. And keep your hand up if you had a problem trying to install it and got loads of errors. Yeah. It is getting better, I promise you. Yeah, so for those who don't know, Sharp is a JavaScript library for image processing. It's been around about 10 years. It's used in lots of things, including the enhanced image component for Svelte. So you might have actually used it without realizing it if you're using this package of Svelte. Anyway, I'm not here to talk about Sharp. I'm here to talk about Svelte. Now, disclaimer time. I started using Svelte a couple of months ago. I've probably used it for about two or three weeks in total. So I don't know what I'm talking about. If I make a mistake, please correct me. Come and talk to me afterwards if I've got something horribly wrong. I want to learn from this experience, all right? Also, because I'm new to Svelte, I focusing exclusively on Svelte 5 and Svelte Kit 2 So these are the latest versions In fact I think Svelte 5 is not even out yet So I been really focusing on all the new stuff so that means i don have to care about all the things that have gone on in the past all you know all the problems and the arguments and discussions and things i don't care i'm sorry just focusing on svelte 5 all right so the first thing i did like many other people when they go to learn about stuff is they go to the svelte websites there it is and to the average passer-by the start website is kind of like a kind of mostly grayscale website with a kind of an orange logo at the top left hand corner um it also has this rather interesting phrase in the middle is cybernetically enhanced web apps i've not seen that before certainly there's a description of web app so i was like what does that mean cybernetically enhanced web apps bit weird so on the discussion forums like someone must have raised this before they have there was a discussion and there was at the end of it someone said this cybernetically sounds 100 like 80s robocop corn to which rich harris replied yes it's our goal jobs get tools boring we shouldn't take ourselves seriously cybernetically i was thinking well i wasn't really thinking of robocop cybernetics has been around for a long time and there's certainly there's a big movement in the 1960s around cybernetics things like the space race were causing this And so if I want to learn about a word and about the history of a word over time, I'll always go and use the Google Books Ngram viewer. So for those who haven't seen this before, it's a really good tool. It tells you about the history of a word over time. They've got data going back about 150 years, and it's about the uses of words in print, online, wherever. So you can find out when a word was most popular. So here's a search I did earlier, cybernetically. And you can see that the word cybernetically has never been more popular than it is today. There we are. That's way up. That's us, right? However, the more astute we'll notice, there's something else going on over here. Look, a little maxima. So you've got the 1960s cybernetics big thing, getting someone onto the moon. Here, this local maxima is 1972. So cybernetically was most popular in 1972. What else happened in 1972? Small talk. Hands up if you've heard of small talk. Hands up if you used Smalltalk. Zero. Brilliant. I should have kept my hand up there, actually. Because Adele Goldberg and Alan Kay were the original authors of Smalltalk's specification in 1972. They wanted to do lots of really good things.

 was pretty much instrumental in a lot of the UI that's in MacOS that we use today. Yeah, she's a great computer scientist. Another person who was active in that era was this guy. This guy is Wilf Lalonde. Now, obviously, this was taken a few years ago, this picture, probably 70s, judging by the corduroy. It just so happened that he is or was a lecturer at Carleton University in Ottawa in Canada. And it just so happened that I went to university at Carleton University in Ottawa in Canada. So he was one of my lecturers. and he taught me small talk he even wrote the book discovering small talk now it's completely it's a brilliant language but completely useless for anything outside of academia um obviously you haven't used it so i'll explain a little bit about it it's a pure o language everything is a class you don't know there's this sort of this function based stuff no no no it's it's a class it's an object that's all you've got but it's so many things that we do today originate from small talk lots of design patterns. And that includes this. This is the value model, value holder pattern. So this comes from Smalltalk. And what it means is that it's kind of an abstract class that holds a single value. So you have, for example, a getter, you have a setter, and you have an update function. That's it. That's all you can do. That's all it does. It also does this stuff. It informs dependence when the value changes. This is really good. So you can have classes that register other classes with each other and say, well, look, hang on a minute. I want to know when your value changes. You might be able to see where this is going. It also has a couple of extra things to do with how those messages get passed around. So an aspect adapter allows you to find out when a particular property of an object has changed. Index adapter is when a particular element in an array of objects has changed. Again, you can probably see where this is going. Because we now know that as signals. Yep, all the big JavaScript libraries from the last 10 to 15 years, all using signals. I'm thinking of things like KnockoutJS, solid.js, I think Vue3 now uses signals. Guess what? Svelte 5 uses signals. Finally, all these things all eventually come around to doing exactly the same thing. But in Svelte, of course, they can't call it signals. It has to have a kooky name. And that name is runes. So, have you hands up? Everyone heard of runes in Svelte? Yeah, most people have got that now. Good. Excellent. So, I'm not sure why they called it runes. I'd have called it Norse code. Hey. sorry and actually took this to an extreme I had a little play with some rings and I wrote this code This is genuine code This code at the bottom here actually works What I know It works. That's what those lines are the one that works. That's how you do. You can see what I'm doing there. Anyway, please don't do that. I was just taking it to an extreme, but if you want to do runes, that's how you do runes. Anyway, I'm going to talk about code for a minute. I'm going to talk about something else. um so back in 1999 i finished university and one of my first paid jobs was working for orange mobile phone company um they orange doesn't really exist in the uk anymore but it's still huge in mainland europe uh france it's massive it's everywhere still so i used to be the webmaster at orange what a great job title that doesn't exist anymore right you don't you don't hear of webmasters you don't search for webmaster on linkedin these days but i was the webmaster orange if you sent an email to that email address it came to this guy and after about two weeks of working there, there was a whole team of people to answer emails because I got too many, I couldn't do that and actually do some coding instead. But yes, I was Webmaster Orange and what we used to do was look after the parts of the website. But this is 1999, right? There aren't any web frameworks at this point. Everyone's just basically making it up as they go along. So I use what we use what I like to now refer to as the HCS framework. it. HTML, CSS, and spacer.gif. CSS layout engines were terrible in the 90s. They didn't work properly. Everything was a one-by-one transparent GIF, and you used that to space absolutely everything out, and that was all we had. HTML was good. Yeah, that was a good thing. Let's keep using that. Actually, to be fair, we did use a little bit of JavaScript, and there was a whole load of Perl CGI bin. It's that era of development. And we made things like this. So this is, you know, the average passers-by, this is a mostly grayscale website with an orange logo at the top left-hand corner. A lot of spacer GIFs as well behind that one. Luckily, the world moved on, realized that we probably couldn't create websites in a sustainable way using nothing at all other than spacer GIFs, and people started to think about other design patterns, and MVC came along. Now you can probably know what this one stands for. Anyone, anyone? on the VC? Very good. Model V controller. Guess where Model V controller comes from as a design pattern? Small talk. Excellent. And so in the kind of, I guess, mainly sort of early 2000s, lots and lots of frameworks came out which were all using the MVC pattern. So at this point, I switched from doing Perl to doing lots of Java development Struts framework is a really good example of this And struts also use allowed you to use a templating language for the view called FreeMarker I ended up working for Thomson Reuters for a few years, working in kind of the legal and tax and accounting stuff. Now, this is the website. So to the average passerby, this is a mostly BraySkill website with an orange logo at the top left-hand corner. And we used, NBC, we used Struts, and we used free marker templates to generate a lot of the pages for this. Now here's an example of a free marker template. Yeah, we've got a little look at that one. Everyone can see that okay. So each is outputting some information about the user. There's a couple of conditional statements. There's a loop here, list. And I thought it would be really interesting to see how that compares with Svelte templates. So let's have a look at the Svelte template version of this. There we go. I'll just switch back just in case you didn't see that. Free marker. Svelte. Marker. Svelte. Very similar, right, you see? So a 20-year-old technology, free market templates, still being used today in Svelte. Excellent choice, well done, Svelte. Right thing to do, brilliant. Okay, so now I've spent a bit of time looking at things about templates in Svelte. And I'm the sort of person who likes to look under the hood a little bit, just to see them. So how's this stuff work? Has anyone ever looked into some of the source code for Svelte? Anyone? Yeah, good, excellent. So the way that those templates and everything else is combined into actual stuff that can run is a three-stage process. There's a parse, there's an analyze, and there's a transform stage, one, two, three. It's all built under the hood on Acorn.js, which is an abstract syntax tree parser. And a hell of a lot of regexes. My word, there's a lot of regexes in that code. But yeah, if you're like 10 minutes, 15 minutes spare, dive in, start having to look through. It's fascinating stuff. But yeah, the crux of it all is Acorn. It's just abstract syntax tree. Guess where abstract syntax trees come from? Well, fantastic. There we are. Now, here's another bit of code. This is also, I mean, you don't have to understand it. Don't worry, it's quite small. It doesn't matter. But it says walks the AST. So this is some code that walks an AST. Now, this doesn't come from Svelte. This comes from another JavaScript framework. And that framework is fax.js. Anyone recognize Fax.js? Anyone? Anyone? No? No Okay I surprised So Fax Web Interface Toolkit You probably recognize it under its new name which is React So Fax is what turned into React Now, I showed you there that there was an AST parser in Fax. So the thing that led to React had a compile time theme to do AST parsing to create optimized code. But yet React didn't inherit that. It inherited all the CSS and JS stuff. It didn't inherit the build time stuff, which it has and makes it a really good tool. A bit unusual, that. So React, I mentioned React there. I was using React about 10 years ago. And the reason that I was using React is because we had to support Internet Explorer 8 back in 2014. Now, at the time, there was probably like sort of 20, 25% market share still on IE8. Now, this is a terrible rouser. I mean, IE6 was bad, but IE8 was also really, really bad. It was actually really difficult to do testing as well. You, we said that, yeah, so the testability. So the automated tools for testing stuff in browsers, it was just all bad, and you end up doing lots of manual testing. And then suddenly React came along. I was like, wait a minute, we can write unit tests for our components. We don't have to worry about testing stuff in the browser anymore. So absolutely the right choice 10 years ago. And so one of the things I created in React, I worked with a team that did a migration for ScienceDirect working for Elsevier. And I'm up to the average passerby. This is a mostly Grayscale website with an orange logo in the top left-hand corner. also it just happens to be an article about boosting a weekly learning algorithm by majority which is an article from 1995 which then led on to become ada boost we'll hear about that i'm sure in nico's talk after this um so as i said react was good 10 years ago it's a really good thing to be doing then however in the last 10 years certainly sort of five five ten years ago there's so much more improvement in the web platform it became more stable you had more APIs available, ECMAScript itself advanced. And I think that's where Svelte's really kind of come into its own, is to be able to take advantage of that stability. I think how old is Svelte now? Six years old, maybe seven years old? Yes, I think it's really benefited from that. So Svelte's very good. I'm not going to tell you why Svelte's good. I think most people here understand why it's good. However, there are problems. It's not all rosy in the world of Svelte. So what is the opposite of Svelte? Anyone? opposite of spelt the closest I could get was frailt which is an old English word which means frailty or weakness so these are the weaknesses that

 I found in my three weeks of using Svelte, this. Everything's called pluspage.svelte, which is brilliant when you've got an IDE that's absolutely full of files called .page.svelte and trying to find it, like, what? To be fair, the tooling's not good enough. And I did think about this for a while, and I thought, well, wait a minute. If I go to another site, like a static site, it's full of index.html. And 15 years ago, it's full of index.php. So it's kind of a normal thing to have lots of things to the same file. So I'm hoping that the tooling will catch up and VS Code will just make this a better experience because when you've got 20 tabs all with the same name, uh-oh. This error. Trying to open a plus page.svelte file at the command line. It doesn't work. Try to open it in Vim. I mean, I'm a big command line user. You can't open plus files. Files that start with a plus symbol in Vim. You have to put quotes around them. They're a bit annoying. This is a page.server.ts file. and this is the stuff that happens on the server side for each page. Now, one of the things about Svelte is it's supposed to reduce the amount of boilerplate, but actually what I've had to do here is put some authentication boilerplate in. So at the top of every single server file, I have to say, oh, wait a minute, have I got a user if I haven't? I need to redirect to the sign-in page. And I could probably encapsulate that a little bit better, but generally for the cross-cutting concerns, you're having to add a little bit of boilerplate in there. So it's not perfect. um client-side errors there's no way of catching them by default so if you generate a client-side error they just barfs in the browser console but you don't know this and the app just stops responding like well did i have i got something wrong there's nothing in any of my consoles anywhere although there is this tiny little error here yeah so it forces you and your client-side code to have really good error handling which i have to say is again it's not a bad thing but you just it forces you to do it i don't know if that's intentional but that's certainly the experience I've had so far. A few people I've seen complaining about a lack of partial hydration island architecture. To be fair, I don't really care about this. I mean, if you're doing a mostly static site with a little bit of interactivity, it's probably the wrong solution anyway. I tend to use my 11T for that instead, so I don't care about that one. The auto-adapters, really, really cool in theory. In practice, what gets deployed isn't the same as what you running locally and you don know that it not quite the same Most of these are all built on a tool from Vercel called NFT node file tracing It kind of like tree shaking for require statements And it's full of edge cases and it's a little bit brittle. So not perfect. I think some work could be done there to improve that. But actually, all of this stuff is developer experience. It doesn't really matter because ultimately it's all about the user experience, right? It's about the websites and web applications that they're creating. As long as they are good, then everything else doesn't really matter. And Svelte's very good at that. This is brilliant. Accessibility warnings when you're doing, I mean, that's fantastic. And I think a couple of the frameworks do this as well. But the fact that you get, like, sort of real-time in your IDE, you've messed up this stuff for accessibility purposes, that blew me away when I first started seeing that. Absolutely brilliant. This fantastic feature. For those who haven't used Svelte before, you can import environment variables from a special private file, and Svelte guarantees that that will never make its way into client-side code. I have definitely, in the past, seen keys and tokens and secrets leak into client-side code. This stops it dead, which is really good. It's obviously really good for end users because it means we don't leak their data. They don't want to be seeing our Postgres classified anyway. And also the environmental impact. Svelte is all build time. The JavaScript bundles that have created are significantly smaller than any other framework I've seen. Ship less JavaScript. Not only is it less bandwidth, but also it's doing so much less processing. The impact of that cannot be underestimated. But ultimately, it's about the community. We're all here today, right? I don't know if anyone noticed on the way in. That's the door right there. We're in an office building called Turnmills. And if anyone see the name of the meeting room, the gallery, does anyone work in this building? Nico, you work here, right? Anyone else work in this office building? Do you know why this room is called the gallery? Nothing's got mine, no. The reason that this room is called the gallery, in fact, all the meeting rooms in this building have certain names, is because where they're standing right now used to be a nightclub. And the nightclub was Turnmills, and they had a club night every Friday called the gallery. and I used to come to this on a fairly regular basis so I was like and actually there was a big sense of community at the gallery you come and you see people there every Friday and I thought actually it a really nice fact that I coming back to pretty much where I was 20 years ago to a welcoming community How good is that So actually, it is the community that makes Svelte. Friday, usually on a Friday. Today's Thursday. So yeah, it's great to see that the Svelte community is happening. I have to say, this is only my third meetup I've been to, right? And everyone's been really welcoming. So thank you very much. Thank you for having me. And does anyone have any questions? Did anyone spot any mistakes? What did I get wrong? Which one? The runes. The runes? Just type them in. Yeah. Just unique code symbols. Where was it? Oh, you're making me go back too far. The very beginning. Yeah. Was it really? Oh, come on. I just really wanted to see all the slides. My terrible joke again. There we go. Please don't do this. To the bottom. That's state. That's derived. That's your Boolean type. That's your number type. That's an N. And then that's I and that's J or something, I think. Well. All right. Thank you. I will share the slides later if anyone would like to copy this code. Please don't. Is that a question? So, let's do this properly. So, yeah, when you were studying, you studied under the guy that wrote that amazing, useless programming language, right? But it can't be that useless, surely, if it defines some of the most important paradigms in programming. So, I mean, I'm interested in the story of that. I mean, how did that not succeed? Or, you know, how was it only used in academia? I guess it was quite pure. It was just too pure. So, yeah, the question is about small talk. Why small talk didn't succeed? Is this the London Small Talk Society? Oh, there it is. Okay, good. Maybe you should ask that question there. Why didn't it succeed? I think it was just a bit too pure. It wasn it never really kind of solved problems outside of the academic domain But it has as you say it been hugely influential uh the whole concept of design patterns comes from that um yeah so definitely not it's perfect to learn at university i mean i also learned lisp right it's like i'm used to that thing not sure sorry another question because basically I used it. So I was working for IBM. And in mid-'90s, IBM had this kind of series of environments called Visual Aid something. So they started with Visual Aid Cobol, Visual Aid Smalltalk, and then Visual Aid Java. And I was using it. And I made apps for Saab, for telecommunications, and stuff, but it was very difficult for people to accept it because it didn't look like any other language, right? So it was powerful and everything, but it was scary. And the other thing was the performance. Essentially, you couldn't get the best performance out of it, even though they built some compilers and stuff and they improved it. And then the other thing is you were getting the run times that were really large. Because essentially you were embedding the small talk language with your application so these things were not separate they were one thing and that's but i know that actually there's a um web framework or something of something c related or something that people are still using yeah but having you 20 years now no no no i i started using it in 96 and stopped using it in 97 I mean, that was it. All right. Any more questions? Thank you. All right. Thank you very much. So yeah. I think I have to exit this right now. Nico, do you want to get your slides up? All right. So I think we have mostly gone through all the technical difficulties right now and um yeah we are going to have nico giving the second talk so nico okay looks like we have still not gone through all of the technical difficulties there

 yeah let's clap for nico yes oh thank you guys that's probably the only applause that i would get in my life um unfortunately this is going to be a small talk not pun intended um originally the apologies originally i was meant to show you uh an ai chatbot that is able to read your data and answer your questions unfortunately today my app broke so i ended up doing a slim down version of that hands a small talk again no pun intended um and now i couldn't even demo you anything at all so you can you have to you have to bear with me to go through these annoying slides and hopefully hopefully we'll get something i don't know i can add in the end of it um now a few words about me. I am Nico or Nicholas as my parents like to call me when I'm in you know when I do something wrong. I've been here at Publicis Sapien for five years now and this fancy title here pretty much means I'm a junior developer still aspiring to be mid-level developer one of those things um now outside of my normal day-to-day job um i am kind of like supporting a project that we do with one um kind of like community tech um company called Atlantis and as well my former boot camp called Founders Aquarius where we um kind of like you know allow graduates uh from bootcamps to um work on charity or not non-profitable projects and that's called liftoff so if you know any charity and charities or freelancers anybody that looks for an affordable website um feel free to reach out you know we have plenty of graduates that want to get some experience and also you know offer to the community back. And also I'm part of the, recently I've joined the Oxford Pride Committee. Every year we run different events for the LGBT community and this year, if you wish to join us we have a Pride Day on the 8th of June So enough of the shameless self moving on to Bobby Hopefully try to demo today So this is a very simple, very slimmed down version of how you can develop a chatbot using SvelteKit. And it's simple as, actually, before I go to, does anybody know what SvelteKit is? Do we have anybody that doesn't know? Anybody that doesn't know what SvelteKit is? Shame. Shame. Okay, just in case. I'll put that away. So we're mainly going to be using a library called Vercel, AI SDK. They have recently also released a new kind of like a feature of the library where it allows you to actually have server React components rendering the chatbot. So you can also show fancy stuff as well. Unfortunately, not available yet for AswellKit. hopefully soon that will become available. We can also see on the fly the chatbot to be able to render as well as components within the chat as well. And it's simple as pretty much installing MPMI AI. We're also going to be using another library called LungChain. Has anybody heard of LungChain? Yeah, good, good. Perfect. That last slide. Sorry, that last one. So can you use Hugging Face Main Chain OpenAI 3? Yeah. That's an SDK? Yes, yes, you can. They support that as well. It's one of the lenses I've got. I think they have about... It's not a bit of a, it's an anthropologist. Yeah, yeah. I think they must have had more than 10 different lenses. and they actually become quite good and they released the generative avi not so long ago which is really really promising unfortunately again my laptop doesn't work so i can show you this kind of thing so you have to go through with me these very boring slides um we've got to be using lang chain as well lang chain is an open source again um library if you like that um supports natural language processing on top of the LLMs. And it is very handy because it abstracts a lot of the hard work that we normally have to do ourselves when we using AI or different AI models and prompts as well Feel free as well to contribute to this talk. I'm only touching the surface of these things because I have to use them on a project now. But if you want to interrupt and say more, please feel free to do so. Any... No? Just saying if you've got the CPU power, you can use embeddings in their long train as well. Yes. Yes, you can indeed. So, how do we do that? Simple. As well as GitUp. You know already these commands, how to run as well as GitUp. And then install long chain and AI on top of that. again we're going to be using some of the tools from LimeChain and as well the Vercel SDK AI which is about AI most of there okay so how do we do this now the first thing that we can do pretty much really need two pages just to spin off an AI chatbot the front end page which is that lovely plus page as well and of course you know our but the front end page and we also have the server page as well. In this, in the front end Svelte page, it is enough for us to use the use chat hook that comes from the Svelte SDK AI. And because immediately we have access to these lovely modules there or tools there, input is pretty much, you know, can bind to our form input there, where the users have something, and that can pass the message from the input to the LLM using, again, the AI tool. The messages, which is like a store where we store the different messages between the AI and the user, and as well the handle submit, which is the PDFan function that gets triggered when we click send. Everything clear so far? Does the input variable there does that hold the context of the chat as well Yes I believe so Yes And our server code which is our lovely dot server page. Again, they advise you to follow that route when you do that. Where we can incorporate LAN chain as well, and the streaming text response from the SDK AI. All this lovely code here, all this abstraction lovely code here is what we kind of like need to be able to exchange messages back and forth with the LLM model. In our case, we're using the OpenAI. Let's come from here. You can subscribe to the OpenAI very easily. Get your key. I think you get a free bandwidth of $20, I think, to begin with. There's no free tier anymore. There's no free tier anymore. Oh, disappointing. Pay up front. Okay, sorry. Someone else has to pay for my OpenAI key. I haven't used that for ages. Okay, fair enough. And of course the stream, that is the distinction between the human message and the A message that comes again from Unchain. Simple as that. Now, what are these kind of like functions here? The runnable sequence is pretty much a recipe for posting text. It tells the program what steps to take with the text, such as breaking into words, identify parts of speech or analysing sentiment. And the Biosightful parser is like a translator for special data. When data comes in a format that's hard to understand, this tool helps turn into something readable and usable for the program. And that's pretty much it. I'm really sorry about it. Just going back to the last slide. Just want to elongate your talk as much as possible. Yes. I think it would work this time. Would it? Just in case. Just in case. Should I try it out while you're speaking right now? Yeah, but what if it doesn't work? I'm not going to finish my talk. I think it will be. Okay, let's try. You can keep continuing.

 okay i'll ask my question anyway though yeah so um so one of the the config values or properties was temperature yes the temperature is how hot you want chat to be you can say that yeah i mean genuine question how human how human like you want the chat to be or how robotic, I mean, I suppose you know, that's how I define it. What's 10 or what's 9 or whatever the highest value? 10 is the human, more like human-like and less is like more like a, I think, I think so. Am I right? I think one is just like, don't hallucinate. Yes. Don't give any bullshit, which is like my default. Because anything beyond that, if it goes like 0.6, it just dreams up. But you can also do it with a prompt. You can tell, you can say to the, to the AI, not to not to yeah I think with the temperature it's all facts yeah is it also so that the user can tell that it is definitely a machine you know is that another part of the experience you know so that you're not that's like an ethical question I just mean sometimes it's sometimes good to know that it's a robotic that you're speaking to a robot right because then you interact with it differently you know yeah I just prefer to have facts right you want it on one not made up stuff you go from that like the slightest amount I've found it just makes up any crap it's not factual stuff I use it for code so a lot of time it just gives you the right stuff but we ask other questions it's make up stuff as you can in a way he has to it's creativity so if you put it into one I think it's the other way around but anyway it's kind of like you will return the same answer regardless and if you want so like if you're using it for brainstorming if you're using it for creative writing you want something but you don want the answer to be the same Non That something new Sorry, Nico. No, no, you're absolutely right. We're still learning those things, to be honest. So originally, that was the version of the chapter that I wanted to show you. You can choose a document, but you can upload that. It doesn't work, by the way. I'm just showing you what it was meant to do. and you can then allow it to, yeah. So the idea behind this to use a method called RAC is the process of allowing your data to be ingested and stored within a database where the AI can then access that and you can then ask questions about your data, which is something that probably, to my knowledge, Chargibity or all these free tools they don't do yet. Of course, you have other AI platforms that they do that for you, like ChatPDF or something like that, that you can upload your data and you can then ask the AI to answer some questions based on your data. But still, I think you have, because AI is paid service, you have the feature, but you still have to pay something. Still, they're limited to what they can do. So that was what I wanted to originally show you. And again, because of this issue that I had today, you're going to end up with this simple one. Chatbot, you can, once you integrate that, 15 lines of code, how many there are there, you are then able to interact with the chatbot and ask pretty much any questions you like. And that is my very small talk. So can I just start? Every time some information is and it's to that form element now, that goes into the readable stream, right? So then from your other slide, that's essentially a continuous stream. Yes, correct. Correct, correct. Unfortunately, again, because my very good luck today as usual, as you probably have noticed, I wasn't able to demo the original app. So maybe there be a part two We are going to inspect a little bit and show what the request was in the back For For the other one No no just for this one If you ask another question what is the network request? Yeah, yeah. If I can load that somehow. Oh, maybe not. You mean, you could... You mean in DevTools? Yeah. Oh, you can do DevTools. Okay, okay, yeah, yeah. If you go into this spot, like what does it send and what does it reply? interesting to try and like change the temperature for simple questions yeah you definitely can should we do 0.1 What would you like to ask? Same question. I guess you could ask it twice so we know what the difference is between the two. Let me copy paste then. Proper analytical take part. You're boring. Okay, okay. Oh, which go mention? Try and ask him why should I use salt? He might have like a different... Oh, wow. Would you like to read that Yeah So, yeah, does anyone have any questions? Can I just check that I've understood what the upload thing was supposed to be? the idea that you would upload a data set that you want chat gpt to be able to answer questions about and then that's the topic that the chat is covering so let's say you had a uh you wanted to do one of those little sort of chat bot things on a website where you're talking about your product or your your company or something and you basically you would use that to upload a bunch of facts about what it is that you do. And then Bob's your uncle. You've got a little chatbot that can say, oh, what are your pricing plans or something? And that's what it's answering. It's not then going to start talking about other people's pricing plans or random other stuff. Have I understood that correctly? That's the idea. Yeah. But then again, because you're connected to the open AI, which is, it depends again, which LLM you're using. So you can still ask. other questions and it will go and retrieve from whatever knowledge it has been trained on until 2021 I think, or can I? But, you know, yes, the idea is that you will predominantly use the chatbot to query your data rather than any other data. Hopefully there will be another talk that will go well, this chatbot rather than we can double that. which use theน distributor, ิ่งð contrat Thanks, Nico. Yeah, so just a couple of things before we leave. We're going to head to a pub now. Nico, what's the nearest pub again? It's called the castle or the elephant or something. Yeah, I think it's called the castle or something. It's in front of Farrington. So if you just want to hang around and chat more about Sharp or... Yeah.

 Yeah, it's near the Farrington Station, right?