 So first of all, we have Justinusbaum. Is that? I pronounced that correctly. I don't know. And it's building a SAS module for SvelteKit. I won't read all of the... I'll let Justinus do that bit. And then after that, we have James Calamari. All right, I did well. Svelte in Motion. So that's the second talk. Yes. All right, sir. Yeah. Awesome. Right. So thank you. I guess a couple of last words is thank you to Nico for doing the slides because I didn't. So thanks for stepping in with the slides, Nico. And we didn't mention toilets. Is that door? Saw it? Yes. Yes. So we need to go to the toilet. Please find one of us to take him out. It is real annoying because we have to use our cards to let you in and out. We were told that they're going to be free for you to travel back and forth, but it hasn't been done so, so I do apologise. Just grab one of us and we'll escort you to the toilet and back. Do they do it? Actually, I need to go back a couple of months just to give a brief introduction about Pabllo Sipian. Who are we? I was hoping to have one of the management to come here and talk today, but they all kind of like, you know, decided not to attend eventually. Yeah. So who are we? We are pretty much an arm of Publicis Group. Publicisep is our name. We are a digital agency and, you know, we support different clients across the banking, retail. What other stuff do we have? consumer services oh yeah automobile services we have different clients that we assist with our engineers, our kind of like technical team, at the moment we, I don't think we are hiring I'm really sorry about that as we're transforming to the new AI era but soon we'll definitely be opening up positions for people to join and we also have a graduate scheme that runs at the beginning I mean once once a year for new joiners to join our company and scale them up from scratch I think it was pretty much it Cool. Yeah. Okay, let's get Josh on. Josh, are you around? Yes. Cool, you can show your screen now. Can you hear me okay? Yeah. Would you be okay to take a Q&A after you're finished? Yes, absolutely. Awesome. It looks like I'm coming through. All right, everybody. So my talk tonight is about building a SaaS module for SvelteKit. Just give you a brief about me. I'm a software developer in Montreal, Canada. I've been coding for a very long time. I used to work at Shopify. Actually, that's kind of how I ended up in Svelte is that when I was at shopify we were doing like a react project for uh like payment it was like an accelerated checkout thing and i do i remember that it was like a bit tough you know like to work with react so like when i ended up a couple years later seeing svelte it was like hey you know this is this is like way easier and uh basically haven't touched react since um i do a couple of uh svelte projects so So if you want to check them out, I have a project for Stripe, for Stripe Elements. So a persistent store. And I also did a project that, like, is a comparison between React and Svelte, if you want to see, like, side-by-side code examples. um so uh this this talk is basically about um how to create uh a payment and authentication set up in in svelte kit uh easy way hopefully uh i divided it into like three parts basically like first like why i i did this which is probably not very there's not much svelte content there just more like a business uh the business problem that i encountered and how i how i tried to solve it then i go into like the what of like how i actually tried to solve that and then lastly i'm going to try to give you guys like a bit of a of in-depth of like what i learned about the projects that i was using just so in case anybody here isn't doing sas stuff they could probably still benefit from what i learned about those code bases um okay so first why i did this so back in i think it was in 21 21 I was trying to build this like a startup a little SaaS project which is called Carrier Wave And I used Svelte This is actually before SvelteKit was out there So I was using Svelte for the front end and the idea was that it was like a way for like people that are shipping a lot of products like let's say you're a merchant you're shipping like a thousand boxes a day um you need some way to like know that there's a problem with like only maybe out of the thousand boxes you ship there's like two boxes that have an issue maybe the person wasn't uh the address was wrong or something so it was a way of like kind of like giving alerts uh and warnings to the merchant about about issues and it was cool like in the fact that you know like i got some customers using it i think it reached maybe a couple grand a month which was like amazing you know for first uh attempt at sass um it obviously you know uh with any project you're gonna have it's not perfect in the end it kind of uh i guess it kind of failed but um i i like this i don't know if you ever i'm sure you're familiar with the saying like winner win or lose i like the alternative uh winner learn so that's sort of how i ended up with this project was i was looking at you know can i mine this thing and try to find like uh some useful things that i could take out of it to use for my next thing and um one of the issues uh that i had which is i know it's kind of ironic because i'm like literally creating payment stuff is i i when i launched i actually didn't have payment uh the My reasoning was incorrect, but I figured that since I know payment stuff, it's not really an unknown. So I'll do that later, and I'll try to focus my energy on the other stuff. I think it was a mistake just because I think for a SaaS to work, you basically have an engine. And an iteration of the engine is that a customer paid money for the thing, used it, and then paid again. And that's an iteration. So if you don't have the payment in there, you're kind of not really proving the idea because you end up with like a lot of freeloaders, people that are going to pay, they claim they're going to pay the invoice later and they haven't got around to it. And like, and then, you know, then I'm basically a collection agency. So I think that that was a bit of a mistake. I wish that you know I would prefer to have people not to like to not sign up and give you a reason Like okay I not putting my credit card in because of X Then you can go and solve that problem right as opposed to have them use it for free and then find out later that you know they're just not paying for it so that's sort of how i got to this project um was so i looked at some alternatives like what are the what are you know what are different ways you could you could solve this obviously you can go and just build it yourself that's probably the most common it's not rocket science it takes maybe a week or two depending on the quality level like for me i i want it to be high quality i probably need unit tests i need integration tests so it's quite a bit you know probably it's going to take a week for sure to to you know to wire up your authentication and your payment together um there's obviously starters as well i see a lot of starters like uh next js tailwind like like all you know everything you're one giant thing i i don't really like starters because i feel like you're just switching the problem like instead of uh solving authentication of payment now i have this new code base that i gotta now go learn and you know uh and has all these decisions made and then maybe i like vanilla js they like tailwind or i like supper base they like surreal db i like it's very hard to match all these all these choices and besides learning the whole code base then it's impossible to also um upgrade the the code base you know like if you make changes you can't take an update from them anymore because it's not a library right so that's why i don't really like i don't really like to use starters if i can avoid them um another option that's out there not used as much as api so uh there's like memberful there's a few of these companies where unfortunately they will own your data so it's you're really getting married to them if you're doing this like you're you know you're going to be paying every month and your real business is going up every month if you're successful so for me i mean you know if you're like a small indie hacker i mean i don't think you want to start your business by having a heavy subscription with somebody right um and then of course there's the option that i took uh which i don't recommend which is like just pushing it off and thinking you'll do it later definitely i would avoid that okay so that basically led me to this point of like is there another way how could we solve this how can we make it easier and so what i built is this thing called the air badge and I just want to say thank you to I don't know if you guys know Didier Lennon or Didier Katz he did the logo for me thank you Didier basically what AirBadge is it's like the glue between Auth.js and Stripe

 So it connects Auth.js with Stripe, and it allows you to essentially have a paywall on your site that is updated based on the status of the person's payment. The cool thing is it's, like, ultra-fast to set up. I was just setting it up for the doc site the other day. It's, like, honestly, it's minutes. Like, the work now is in, like, there's more work in probably going to, like, Google and figuring out how to get your OAuth credentials. it's a library so you don't you know it's not a starter it's not an api it solves like you don't have any of those any of those issues if there's a new version comes out you just update the npm package and you're good to go uh it's totally open source so you know you see the code you can modify the code um it's it's free and i will i'm i would like to have a payment a paid higher tier and i'll talk about that later in the talk but at least there should be like a very generous here that anybody should be able to use it you know to get started and yeah the main thing is less code right like uh who wants to write this code if you can just get if you could just focus on the app that you're building and the features you're trying to provide your customer and not have to write all that glue stuff you know that's like not interesting um i think that would be a huge win um i also like the fact that there's less like it's it's a library that's tested so I'm not writing all this like integration tests with playwright and V test unit tests. Like I'm just getting something that's well tested. Um, I also like, you know, working in payments a lot. I find that it's like, it attracts, uh, payment billing code always seems to like attract problems because people are very like hesitant to change it. Cause it's like, you know, it's, that's how the business is making money. So they're not, they're not, they're not, you know, going to, people are reluctant to make, to modify it. So I think it would be better if you could just use somebody else's library. That's like well-tested that, you know, you could just bring it in. And this hopefully would make experimenting easier. So now instead of every project starting out with a week or two of, of this, this glue stuff, you can just go right into your experiment and you can have your thing up, you know, hopefully in a weekend, you know? So that's, that's the hope. So I'll show you what it looks like to set this thing up. so it's just an npm package which you install it's air badge installed kit um once you have that installed you go into your your hooks right and you i don know if you guys have used off if anybody there has used it i can really see the crowd so i can ask you how many have used Auth But this should look very similar to if you used Auth because it looks almost identical The only difference is that I imported from error badge SvelteKit instead of from Auth SvelteKit So the API is very similar. And like imagine if you were, you can use any database you want, but like imagine if you were using Prisma, the only difference you would have to do is you would add in a few extra columns to your table just so it can track the subscription status and the subscription ID. Once you do that, you use a regular adapter. So Auth.js basically supports tons of adapters, Prisma, Drizzle, Mongo, and you can use the out-of-the-box version. With Mongo, it's even easier because you don't even have to modify your schema. It automatically will add the columns as needed. And then you go in and set up the OAuth. Again, this is exactly the same as NextAuth. You just choose NextAuth. I think it supports like 100 full-off providers. So use any of those. Here, I'm using Google Apple. And then the only difference here now where we are slightly different than Auth.js is that you want to create your pricing. So I like to use the CLI. You can use the dashboard, but the Stripe CLI works really well. You can just say, like, Stripe prices create, you know, the name of the product, currency amounts. Sorry, I should have used pounds. and the interval. That gives you a price ID. And so the price ID, then you pass. So this is an extra thing. Now you pass to your auth handler and you tell it basically IDs and it prices. And the reason that there's an ID here is because you probably in your code, you might want to have an if condition that says like, if the plan ID is basic, do this, if it's pro, do that. Right? So that's what the ID does. Now, once you do that, you get this basically, which is on the left-hand side that's provided by auth.js, which is a sign-in forum. On the right-hand side is provided by air badge slash billing checkout. So when the user signs in, they're going to automatically be sent into a checkout flow where they're required to pay. The cool thing also is that I check if the price is zero, like if it's a free price, if you have a free plan, or if there's a trial, it'll skip the checkout. So it'll still create a subscription on Stripe, but you won't have to have the user fill out any forms, which is nice. And it also handles all the webhooks for you. So all you do is you just go to Stripe Listen and you can forward it to your local host And it has this billing webhooks basically that will have all the webhooks for you So if you go into Stripe Dashboard and you change the subscription and say it canceled it'll automatically be reflected immediately in the database. It also adjusts the Auth.js session. It adds some extra stuff in the session. So there's now a subscription field in the session, which you can use to check the plan or the status. this way you can have conditional logic. Yeah, here's an example. The stuff in gray is the session data provided by Auth.js. And the stuff in purple is the stuff that's extra stuff that was added by AirBatch. So you see you can put your conditionals based on this. Because I think authorization is very common, like blocking logic or preventing based on the status of the plan. I created a bunch of helpers. So you could basically import these helpers, which are like, they're kind of like middlewares. And there's one for each subscription status. So you can say like subscriber.active, subscriber unpaint. So you could have your endpoints be disabled or blocked based on the status or the plan. There's also one called plan. You could say subscriber.plan and then specify only for like the pro plan. Only the pro plan could access this endpoint. way um and there's a very similar idea but for this front for as as as components so if it's a lot of server-side condition you can use this component which has a slot and so you can basically say like oh if they're trialing okay then show this message you know so this is nicely you know imagine a banner that says whatever you haven't paid your your you need to update your credit card so you could basically just say uh subscriber and then change the status here to be uh whatever unpaid and then you can have your custom message for those people so that's just a nice a nice component all right so now i'll uh go maybe a little deeper into the uh into the implementation of how how i did this i mean obviously it's based on auth.js and i tried very hard to keep it like exactly the same api as much as possible um australia is basically is just a collection of some data in your database into that table. Just a heads up, the account table here, I don't know, I feel like it oddly named It like basically the account is like one record per provider so like imagine if you have a google account and an apple account you would have uh one user record but you would have like two records in the account table so it's not it's not like an account with multiple users which that's how i would do it i don't know but anyways um yeah so that's the schema and then when you in auth.js they call it an adapter again i find that weirdly the aim because i feel like everything there is an adapter there's database adapters and authentication adapters but anyways adapter means really database adapter and you can create your own but like you just have to implement this api and so like each of them like the drizzle line the frizzle the mongo they all have these functions and yeah so it's pretty straightforward if you want to add a new one and in my in my case like i'm using i'm just piggybacking off their their interface, like update the user. So like, let's say a web book comes from Stripe with a change status of the subscription changed. I just call update user on that user to change the fields of the table. The other thing that AltJS has is providers. So this is basically my spec. It supports like tons and tons of stuff, tons of OAuth providers, tons of password, They're not even like password lists or with password. Now they're even doing a boss. And I haven't really looked at it yet. It looks like they're supporting that. So there's lots of options. And also custom. If you have a custom OAuth situation, you can just define the endpoints in there, which is nice. It's actually using this thing, which I've never encountered until I was looking at OAuth on a chest. But this is basically the project, the NPM package that provides the OAuth stuff. And so another thing that Auth.js does is it gives you like all these like useful endpoints. I think we saw this one, the auth sign-in. That's where it would show like a sign-in form or sign-in buttons. It also provides like a sign-in provider. So like if you want to send the user directly to Google or directly to Apple, just say slash sign-in slash Apple, let's say, and that will take them directly to that flow. So if you want to sign out, you could post to this, this endpoint and assign the user out. If you want to like also this auth providers is useful. It's like a JSON, it's a JSON payload that has all the active providers. So like, imagine you wanted to build

 kind of pop-up UI for the you're signing in. You could just fetch this endpoint. It'll give you the JSON of all the providers, and then you could data bind your UI so you could show buttons, Google, Apple, whatever's enabled. They also let you in Auth.js customize pages. So if you don't like the Auth.js sign-in page, you can just change it to be something else. Another one I change a lot is this, new user, like essentially the page that they send the user to after they sign up. I would usually change it to like slash welcome or something like a welcome page or dashboard. So that's a useful one to change. And they also provide a lot of ability to configure and make changes. Like for example, these are almost like hooks where you could hook into different events that are happening inside Auth.js and you could change the behavior. like you could for example sign in they'll call that when somebody signs and you could say like you can return false for some reason like no this user is blocked uh you could change like how they're what re-orals they're redirected to and stuff like that or you could change the session like add extra data to the session do a database lookup or something this is kind of very very useful on this is what makes this whole thing possible is is me basically modifying the callbacks yeah i'll also talk about a little bit the what a stripe integration looks like with svelte kit so usually there's there's two ways of doing it um there's either either you can think of either checkout which is like a hosted version you know where you basically just use stripe for their you the stripe will manage the ui for you and then there's the elements which is more like an embedded you know if you if you want to embed something into the page uh for the elements definitely check out uh this is my project style stripe uh that's the doc site um it has a lot of it has basically all the stripe widgets so if you want to have let's say you wanted to have an apple pay button there's a there's a component you can just drop on your anywhere in your page and you know it'll support apple pay or google pay or whatever so that's kind of useful if you're doing payment stuff but like i feel like for this thing i just use the hosted checkout because i feel like I was kind of thinking that for the terms of like an indie developer like you want to get your project out this week this weekend let say and you probably are fine with having it hosted you just want to get paid and like you know you develop your idea in the future maybe you have a fancier payment for them So usually with Stripe that means you would call checkout sessions create And this is basically how you would start a checkout session. You give it a bunch of URLs, like where to go on success, on failure, what the currency is and the light items. In this case, that would be like the plan, the pricing that we set up earlier. So I'd ask the pricing IDs. and then you redirect the user to the checkout URL. So this is implemented for you already in AirBadge. You don't have to do it yourself, write any of the tests or anything. I kind of tried to use, you know, like those, I don't know what they're called, like, babushka dolls or Russian dolls sometimes. But, like, you know, where, like, it's, like, fit, you know, like there's a doll inside the doll. That's sort of what I would try to do with the Auth.js thing where it's, like, this API is all of, it's just Auth.js plus one extra config option called plans. That's it. So it's very easy to get rolling with. And it reuses all their stuff. So I don't have to reinvent the wheel. I can reuse all just adapters, provide an inversal. Obviously, they're putting a lot of effort and energy into this. So essentially using that. What I do is inside the callbacks, I modify callbacks so that I set the subscription. subscription that's and that basically i do a database look up here and fill that out and then i also override the redirection to basically say if they need payment then i i send them to that that new endpoint that i uh that i've that i've created going checkout good and so you remember how auth.js has like a a auth slash auth endpoints what i did was i i said i was like hey that's a great idea i should do the same for billing so that's what i did basically there's a billing checkout that's that's that's what initiates the checkout and you could pass in the plan if you wanted to as well optional um if you want to send the user to the billing portal that's like a ui that stripe provides where you can where the user can like self uh can cancel their account or update their credit card so that you just send them like it just you would literally just need an A tag with the href to that, you know, that I also have this nice handy endpoints of modify, which would allow you to change the plan. So imagine like you have on your site, a little banner that says like, oh, sorry, this feature is not available. Upgrade to the print plan the link the link to upgrade it could just be going to modify plan equals pro And that it They updated to the pro plan Same with cancel I also stole AuthJS idea of provider JSON Instead, I'm using plans here. So let's say you have a pricing page and you want to show a list of pricing, you could just fetch this endpoint, the pricing plans, and you'll get a JSON of all the plans that are configured. And you can just data bind to UI. And, of course, the billing webhooks, that's handling all the Stripe webhooks for you. so yeah so that's that's the end points yeah anything i was thinking about is like monetization i mean i haven't done anything here now like my idea was to like have a very generous free option that anybody could use to get started with but i think something like this it would be good to like i know if i was you know i'm a user i would want it to be maintained um especially something like this where you know businesses could rely on it um one idea i had is is maybe to use a bsl license I know it's not used that much, but I think it's catching some steam. I know there's like some companies, for example, like MariaDB, HashiCorp, Sentry. They're using it, you know, like Sentry. You can host Sentry on your own server or you could pay and have, you know, have them handle it for you. So I was like trying to figure out like what's a good point? Like at what moment should somebody be okay with paying for it, you know? Yeah, I mean, I was thinking about it. I think one place maybe, or a few features that I'm thinking about maybe building as a paid thing, you know, maybe like $200 a year or something like that, would be like team pricing. So, like, imagine you want to have multiple users under one subscription. Because I feel like at that point, like, if somebody is successful with the thing and they're going into, like, now selling team licensing, they're probably relying on this. Like, they wouldn't mind to pay for it. Same with annual pricing. Most people don't start with offering annual pricing. It's more like once they're more successful, they're like, oh, well, we can make more money if we charge annual. So then, all right, so then, yeah, then you're willing to invest. Same with per seat. I find a lot of B2B, they want to charge for the seat. So if you're charging for seats, you're probably already on your way. I don't know. Yeah, so I guess in summary, what I would say is I'm not sure what's next for this. Like I'm gonna use it. I could one way I can go with this is like maybe obviously it built on Auth It could be also used in React maybe as a Next project I don know For example, I see Lucia auth. They're doing that. Maybe this could also work for this project. I could also look at other frameworks like other authentication systems like Auth0, Supabase, Lucia, et cetera, and try to do a similar maybe like an adapter for that so if people have different auth options that could be an option too it obviously will work I mean you know with any idea you kind of just put it out there you see if it helps people and based on that you know you could put more energy into it I know I'm going to use it I'm going to try it I think it's going to help me experiment so I guess you know at least I have that and yeah I mean that's it thank you so yeah just thank you Scott for setting it up thank you sponsors. And I'll take any questions if you have. And here's some... Oh, by the way, yeah, check out the links. I don't have a landing page up yet. It's just the logo. But the doc site is up. So if you want to take a look at the docs, the code is not public yet. But yeah, it'll be in the next few days. Check out Josh's courses as well. Podio.com. Sorry, here's the mic. Josh, you've got two on there now? I know the first one I saw was an Insta-buyer for me. Some really good stuff in there. You've got another one now, right? Yeah, there's a Prisma one too. What's the other one you've got? So what are the two courses? I have one on SvelteKit SaaS, and then I have one on Prisma. I think I looked at the Prisma one. Have you got your Twitter so people can check you out on there? because I'm not Josh-ness. I'm Josh-ness, so I'm all pretty down on things. There you go, yeah. Because this is how I come across this, just from, I mean, I know not a lot of people who still don't see it so much, but this is how I come across this, and I thought it was a great idea to share. But, yeah, thank you. We'll open it up for questions. Anthony? Yeah, so your questions, I just want to say, you haven't got a landing page. That's great. You've launched at the right time. That is good work. Right, yes. So questions? Any questions? Thank you.

 in a pretty modular way. Is that to say that if I were to adopt it, it would be bring your own internationalization, bring your own X, bring your own Y? Yeah. Yes. I guess there was no assumption on the... There's very little assumption on the UI. So actually the components that I provided are... They're actually headless, really, because it's really just like a slotted component. so there's no real text or I guess it would really be up to what Stripe settings are for internal initialization like being able to have a country specific checkout. I think I believe that they have that. The language could be adjusted I think. Thank you. Great answer. I'm excited to Josh's to do this. I'm going to warn you. You can also come up here because he can see your face if you stand in front of that camera, but it's up to you. Hey, great project. One question, though. Why base it on Auth.js and not, like, Lucia? And especially, I'm asking that because Auth.js was, like, split from NextOff. And it's not greatly working with SvelteKit. It does work, but it sets so far in some aspects. yet Lucia at least was built from the ground that was a headless one and with adapters for each sort of framework. Yeah, I mean, I think Lucia looks very good. I haven't really looked at it that much. I guess the reason is probably my own familiarity with OSJS and maybe also like I felt like, you know, Versailles is obviously behind this project. Yes, it is. I agree that like the state is sometimes funny a bit, Like, the internals of the code, if you look at it, there's still a lot of, like, Next.js stuff in there, which is odd. But I know that they're improving it, so I feel like it's worth betting on. Yeah. But like I said, I am considering, you know, whether I should support other frameworks. But if you look at the numbers, though, if you go on NPM and you look at how many downloads the project gets, it gets a massive amount of downloads. So I don't know. Yeah there room for many options it be great to support others as well but yeah thank you yeah it interesting we we actually use both jess and i wouldn let myself but actually i looked at your your planner following their infrastructure and it's quite nice because they have all these mechanisms like adapters and stuff um any more questions for josh track it to me did you get that no idea I didn't know it's the sport crypto it's not I don't know Josh does sorry by the way isn't it very hard to do subscriptions with crypto I think it's like supposedly impossible or something. I can't remember, right? The whole idea is it's anonymous payments, so how do you connect identity to that? I'm not a crypto expert, so I don't know. I'm 99% sure they were trolling. I've totally forgot my question there. Past case. so does auth.js support passkeys do you know passkeys you know like yubi-key like the Fido alliance is that web-off-end? is passkeys web-off-end? I don't know who said yes? I think they might be I'm not sure yes okay there you go web-off-end just curious to that and a favor to Boyan's question I thought the way you were speaking about it for the provider was that you could essentially swap your own one in with the API routes you've got already yeah so just do yourself okay cool I haven't got any questions I have one more you have to sign a transaction with an amount with your private keys, you can't subscribe. But I'm sure someone will solve it with some ridiculous solutions. So, okay. My question was only one thing actually I guess because you got this like it an abstraction over things You talking about different frameworks you talking about different providers What about different payment providers So for me, this library looks amazing, actually, for the use case you've described. I would look to support something like, let's say, Aiden or something. How could you go about that? Have you boxed yourself in or do you think there's a scope for that? no i think it's possible i don't know i think the same uh adapter approach can work totally you know it's it's right now it's really just at the end of the day the stripe is thing is providing a url it maybe just needs to change the config a bit like it's one thing too i haven't really added typescript but that might be something that's needed there too just to be able to handle a different configure like if you had it adjun then i think their data might be different like they don't have price ids they have some other thing you know yeah there's quite a few stripe specifics yeah it could be done this is an alpha right at the end of the day this is an alpha and I have to put something out there and see like how people use it and and it's going to change right it's definitely absolutely and then that will probably be more more yeah more polished then yeah I think we've all railed you with the really hard questions tonight so sorry and not sorry at the same time no problem right we have talk number two but he's facing the wrong way is his head on the right way around I can't tell okay we're ready for James' talk now which is going to be so in motion so first of all thank you James for doing this talk I was bedgering him for literally three weeks to do this talk so So thank you for putting the slides together for this and not agreeing to do the talk. And I can't wait. I mean, it looks really tantalising. Procedural, procedurally, procedural. Generated videos using everyone's favourite framework and ungodly hackery. Sounds very interesting. So I'm very keen for it to get started. So everyone give James a big round of applause and we'll get started. Thank you. Hello everyone. So yes, this is basically a talk about a thing I hacked together in a weekend against my better judgment. And yeah it sounded cool So I going to talk you through it Hi I James I vaguely remember what in these slides but I will look back to remind myself and then base my talk on what in front of me So yeah, I'm James. I'm from, I live in London now. I do software development, obviously, that's why I'm here. But I'm originally from Malta, and this is one of my favorite graphics to show. this is greater london and this is the entirety of my home nation and that's like woolwich over there spreading up to watford that's the whole thing uh but like if you cram us in a bit there's like you can fit way more maltas into london you'd expect um so yeah i do front-end development mostly and i think the first time i ever coded a bit of html was on this thing called neopets which most people probably have never heard of, but some people have memories of some sort. So yeah, I hacked together a storefront or a house for my pet cow, who I've since lost access to, which is very sad. And that was clearly a slippery slope because I'm still doing web dev like 15 years later. I'm also into graphic design. So yeah, I found this stellar GIF. and this is kind of a combination of those two interests of mine, code and graphic design and animation and suffering. So it's basically going to be about animation. This is a very reductive overview of animation as a concept for those of you who somehow aren't aware of it. There's lots of ways to do animation, the painful way, whereas you draw every single frame by hand over many, many hours, and then you put them all together very fast and you get movement. And then computers came along and we found a way to do it slightly better. And you've got nifty things like Adobe Flash, the incredibly Macromedia Flash. And you've got these cool things called keyframes here. So you can put a ball over here and keyframe it and then move your ball over here and keyframe it again and the computer will sort out the middle. So that saves you like 40 frames of suffering. And now we tend to use a piece of software called Adobe After Effects, which besides doing a listing, has added the nifty feature of actually adding JavaScript code directly into your animations. So why click and drag?

 my little red ball when I can write some JavaScript to do that for me. Which is great when you need to do complex animations, great when you need to do, like, things tracking one another, or great if you just like coding for fun, if you're that kind of oriented person. But this talk is about what if we just skip all the software and bits in the middle and just write the video directly with code. So like leave out Flash, leave out the hand drawing, leave out After Effects, JavaScript, straight to video. So that's what this is about. And the end result of, again, this hacks and pledgery is an actual video file that you can share on social media or like mail to your mother or whatever you do with the videos you receive on the Internet. This already exists. So like as a concept, this is something called remotion. pretty handy you basically can use react to generate front-end code and that can get composited into a video so this is cool but um yeah wrong audience so a project i had to deal with um like generate a bunch of title slides for like a banking conference or something and I thought this is miserable to do by hand. Can we code it? And I found out, yes, you can with this thing. But it's React. So I could either use something that someone else built and sleep or else I could recode the entire thing in Svelte just so I get to use Svelte. And that's basically what I did. So this is about creating a similar sort of concept from the ground up in Svelte. So I'll show you why I built that, how I built that, and all the nifty tricks that made it, again, clutched together. Disclaimer. Important disclaimer, especially compared to all the usual talks we have here. This is not a product. This is not a library. You can't just download this and magically get on your way. This is just this collection of hacks I squashed together. It's on GitHub now. You can see it. But there is no support team. It's not ready for production. you have been warned but yeah important question before I got on the rabbit hole why why would anyone um ignore software that been built for decades specifically for animation and chose to do everything through javascript um a again you like suffering uh but b uh there are scenarios where this actually comes in handy something like spotify rap so spotify rap generates a unique video for every single user doing that by hand is a massive pick. So if you could find a way to automate that, feed in user data and actually spit out unique videos for each user, for each data point, that actually comes in kind of handy. And that is specifically what this project influences us. Main problems we have to deal with with generating video through a browser. How do we actually get the animation out of the browser in the first place like they're not built obviously to create video very much not the point how do we make it deterministic so every time i run this video i want it to work the same way i like i needed to render stably and sensibly and reliably um and finally how do i get an actual mp4 at the end of it which i can pipe into whatever other form of internet transfer apps i'm using I will go through these one by one. The first one. How about get the animation of the browser? Playwright. Is it a testing tool? Yes. Is it built for squashing video out of your browser? Definitely not. Can you do it? Yes, you can. My God, you can. So this was actually pretty easy. Playwright has this lovely page.screenshot. You could also probably do it directly through a headless browser. Chrome, I'm sure it has some sort of API as well. I just took the easy route and used the well-documented Playwright system. Dead simple. Grab your frames, set your viewport, browser size, load your page so every individual unique web page is a frame of your video, take a screenshot of it. Done. Off the work. Some of you are thinking Playwright can just record video, you know that right? You did not sleep for three days to do this and not record the video. I do know Playwright has a video recording, however quality not great It obviously not geared towards production level video You can pause a render halfway through If you rendering I don know a couple of minutes 60 frames per second it gets pretty hefty. You might want to stop, tweak, adjust, and continue rendering later. You can't do that if you're just recording an MP4 directly from your browser. If something goes wrong, which it does all the time, you need to start your render all over again. and also really nifty with taking individual screenshots is that you can paralyze the whole thing so you could have different machines rendering different bits of your video you could have the same machine rendering six frames at the time super cool and again you couldn't do if you're just recording video directly out of your browser so decided to use this technique and take individual shots of every frame so problem one solved problem two how to make it deterministic So basically what we're saying is every time I play this video, I want it to look the same, which is not usually the case with browsers because you've got strange lag. You're trying to run 4K at 60 FPS and Slack opened up. So your memory usage went to hell. Not great. So there's loads of unknowns. How can we erase as many of those unknowns as possible and just make sure the thing looks right every time? and this is a fantastic pod and lots of cheating and the issue is basically all the system clock so javascript is running on an internal clock but remarkably you can just fake that out you can completely swap out the clock and make it tick whenever you want so we use fake timers um again these are mostly used for testing because if i need to test that a certain process runs at 6 a.m. GMT. I do not want to wake up and run my tests at 6 a.m. GMT, so I fake the timers, and most of JavaScript's internal timers hook onto this system, basically. So your request animation frame, your set timeout, your set intervals, all that can be swapped out and faked. And you can set an exact timecode you want the JavaScript subsystem to run on. So So in a nutshell here, when we're on render mode, stick in our fake timers. And if we not on render mode because we actually want to preview the video in real time remove the fake timers And then we can literally force through a direct frame calculate our frame rate and set the clock to that exact time So if, for example, I have an animation that's 10 seconds long, I know I want to render frame six, put that frame into the URL, kick up my fake timers, and force the time to be frame rate calculation. I'm not going to do mental math in front of you all. It'll go awfully wrong. But, you know, FPS, frames per second, do the maths. That's what the computer's for. So, yeah. Simple. The good stuff is it'll be the same. Every time you want frame 12, you will render frame 12. Everything will look as it should for frame 12. That's nice, consistent renders. You don't have the weirdness with lagginess. I'm not sure that's a word. I'm even less sure that's how you spell it. But lag as a general concept is a problem. Browsers being flaky. As I mentioned before, this means you can render subsets of the animation. So I only want to render the first half. Just put those frames in. I want to double time and do a rough sample render. I can render every other frame. I don't have any of this flexibility if I'm recording directly or if I'm using the system clock, so this lets me choose exactly what I want to show. Again, easily adjust the frame rate, let the computer to the max, and again, you can also paralyze because each browser instance is showing a single frame, so you can spin up as many browser instances as you want and show as many individual frames as you want at the same time. Two problems solved. The problem of why would you do this madness in the first place will never be solved. Finally, how to actually turn those frames into a video file. Easy peasy. FFmpeg. Superb piece of software. It does everything and more. The hardest part is figuring out which of the bajillion command line arguments you need to grab your things and squash them into a video. But I have done that for you. These are the command line arguments you need. Give it a frame rate, tell it where the frames are, give it an audio file if you want. You can even offset the audio if you're not

 client decides halfway through the process that they'd like the audio to sound just a little bit later. Easy peasy. And you can even render videos with a transparent background as an MOV file, as an MP4, a trace containers if you want, like everything. It does everything. Punching those command line arguments, call it from Node.js, and boom, you now have a video file. And it only took you one weekend. Oh, we've solved the problems, but there's more. We can do data-driven video because by God, everything has to be data-driven 2024. This sounds crap, but it's actually pretty cool. So as I mentioned, something like title slides. I have 50 people attending a banking conference. Everyone needs a title slide. I don't want to manually write a video for everyone so I can just generate one video, feed in a list of parameters, and have it spit out a video for each one. I have somehow become a multi-million dollar music streaming conglomerate and I want to give everyone a Spotify wrapped. Do I kill the intern or do I find a way to do this automatically? um so this is one i did earlier um again ripped off from previous clients so like i'm not gonna mention their names for obvious reasons um we're just passing the stuff straight in through the query parameters and the video will take that data and spit it out super easy um close-up of the browser URL bar, just in case the people at the back couldn't see it. But this also gives us another interesting possibility. So what if I don't want every single video to look exactly the same? What if I want some pizzazz, some variation? We can do that too. So in this case, you'll see this is exactly the same code. I have changed nothing except the parameter going in to the title. You see I've been promoted. And so this is pretty much completely changed, maybe not completely changed, but created a completely different variation of the same video. The colors have changed. The size of the floating blob has changed The colors of the particles of the background have changed the angles of the things have changed All that is specifically dependent on the parameters going in to the URL bar Obviously, you can't just use a math.random because math.random will give you a different random value every time, i.e. every frame. So your video will turn into a massive, fuzzy, corrupt disaster. so to get that working we can use a pseudorandom generator which is what JavaScript actually uses under the hood except in this time we can actually decide how those numbers are generated so quick aside most of you know this but a computer is not truly random it uses a pseudorandom number generator to generate random numbers that random number generator is given a seed and that seed value is what dictates what random numbers come out. Now, in most cases, if you want actual random numbers, you're picking up your seed from, I don't know, some random system variable. There's a bit somewhere in the bowels of the DOS. They're like collecting entropy data. In this case, we want the opposite of that. We want to be sure that the random numbers are always going to come out the same, which sounds ridiculous, But it guarantees that when I render every frame of my video on a separate machine at separate times, each frame will always look the same. And so to do that, we've got our own little pseudorandom number generator. I have no idea what any of this does. Not a clue. It looks really clever. There's a paper and everything. But basically what we're saying is we're pushing in a number for the seed, and that's going to return a random number generator. The random numbers generated from that function are going to be predictable. So if we look at this, I've generated three random number generators. These two have the same seed. This one does not. If I call random on each of them, you'll see that these random numbers are identical, while this one has a completely separate seed is not. So this means if I using the random number generator to dictate I don know the size of certain elements in the video the speed of an animation the colors Every frame will have the same randomness But also, I can use it to tweak and adjust things according to that seed I put in. So if I just hash the name of the initial parameter, if I hash, I don't know, any kind of data that is unique for that video, I can use that to derive and generate a video file that is unique to that set of data. Add a comma, change someone's name slightly, the entire name will be completely different. So now we do the demo slash walkthrough, which will probably work, but it's a live demo, so it may also probably not. Oh, thank you. It's great. So, first I'm going to show you the one I made earlier. So this is just... So yeah, it does audio too. Again, that was totally generated in browser. Now, if let's say... So let's make one for Scott. so let's open I want to move this here slightly because I can't see what I'm doing so let's go to our renderer find our config and we're gonna add Scott and he's gonna be great Mike Holding guy and save that you're doing such a fantastic job. Thank you so much. Should I turn that? The sound. So, if we pop in here, it should have... So this is my preview. So if we put Scott in here, at some point I'll create an interface to like make this a bit less hacky, but very low priority. Um this is not his real job It not his own yeah So as you can see rendered on the fly different colors, different alignment of things, data's in, and that was nifty and worked. And now that we know it looks good enough, we can get the thing rendered. So... Spin that up. PNPM render. Will this work? Come on, buddy. It's one of the colors, just pardon my attention. It's great. Nothing like with dramatic effect. So as you can see there, it's rendering six separate threads. And those are the frames of Scott's video being generated. What? So it starts with a black wipe, which is... So I see those are all popping out. You can see the name zooming in. The one thing this doesn't do is motion blur, which I haven't figured out yet. Like, motion blur would be nice. I just probably need, like, SVG filters or whatnot. It's pretty fast on the whole. Again, so these are multiple threads on my little laptop. Um, ReMotion, which again, heavily, heavily, heavily inspired this idea. Um, put this onto lambdas on AWS and you can just render at humongous scale. But if you have six laptops running around at home, you can just do that that way anyway. Um, this tends to take like a minute and a half, two minutes for a 10 second video. Obviously increasing the resolution and increasing the frame rate will make it take slightly longer. We don't need to wait for it to finish, but effectively once that's done, it'll use ffmpeg to glue all the frames together and generate little video. Cool. So what I also thought I'd do is walk through the most important bits of the source code. I planned ahead and marked all the important bits.

 Faffing around my file directory. I'm just going to point them out, basically. So this is just... Wait, how do you mark them? I just put a comment on, and I have a VS Code plugin that marks my to-dos in bright orange, so I can still ignore them, but at least know they're there in bright orange. And I just updated it to also worry about Svelte Meetup. So that's nifty. So yeah, simple playwright config, nothing important i'm just setting the compilation phase as global teardown i think this might almost be done now yep see so now it's compiling those frames that's the um ffmpeg command and we should have a video So yeah, Playwright config. Only interesting thing to note here is that we're using this compilation as a global teardown. If we look here, you'll see again the same sample of code I showed earlier. This is basically just running the Node.js FFmpeg command. We've got flags for the framerate, the input, whether we're offsetting the audio. we can choose different file types you can go nuts here it's just ffmpeg here's our config so here you can see um i'm feeding in the length of the entire video the time to offset the audio by resolution frame rate um deleting the frames and i'm done uh you can just keep adding here so it'll render all of those again in parallel and then combine them separately, each one will be slightly different because of that random number generator procedural part. This is just a stupid function that's used to generate configs for an individual test. This is all rude. This is how we're rendering. Again, I showed the snippet earlier, spinning it up in playwright, running it as a test which just feels wrong but it works setting the viewport size opening the URL we passing in the frame specifically through the URL taking a screenshot and calling it a day. So if we look at, so this is all running on ZeltKit. So file-based routing, there's basically one simple route here. The main layout is what is installing the fake timers. if we've got a render in the URL. If we don't have a render in the URL, it'll just play the full video so you can test while you're tweaking. And then on the actual page itself, we're just doing a lookup according to the URL itself to pull out the scene. So you can have multiple scenes and render them all at once, all from the same config. So setting the scene over here is what drives which of those scene files, which is just as built component, is going to get loaded and rendered. Again, if a frame is defined in the URL, load that frame particularly, set the clock to that frame, and call it a day. If not, it'll just play. These are our random number generators. Again, number generator here. simple hashing algorithm as in simple as if i know what it's doing i have no idea what it's doing but like the gist of it is put a string in get a number out put a slightly different string in get a completely different number out so that means um you can use uh people's names their titles whatever you have in your video their song choices um and you can get a unique number out of that and then use that to seed your random number variables. And finally, this is actually how the animation was constructed. So just a plain-ass svelte component. Lots of subcomponents, which were the bubble on the side, the main wipe effect, the particles on the background, subcomponents all the way down. These props are fed through the query parameters. Defaults are nice. So before we get to set the query parameters, the whole thing doesn't blow up on your face when you're trying to test. And this is the nifty bit where we are setting creating a specific random number generator that unique to that combination of parameters so for this name and this title i will always get the same random numbers um if in a scenario you have a weird conference where multiple people have the same name and the same title uh you're going to have to feed some of their data in to get different videos for them uh i presume most of you are familiar with um spring stores and tween stores so tweens and springs are a specific mechanism for doing like bounce motion ease in and ease out you basically feed the number um you can set how bouncy you want your number to change how smoothly you want it to fade in and out um and this is actually what drives most of the motion so if we look at i'm going to mute it so we stop hearing tigger screaming um if we look at this you'll see that there's a little bit of a bounce on everything those things fade in kind of smoothly that that maths of like the sine wave and how everything looks that solves that. It's part of the inbuilt animation tooling. Very cool. So that basically handles all of the magic motion. SetTimeout and setInterval and requestAnimationFrame and so on. Those just work because we're taking over the internal JavaScript clock and patching it with individual frames and second timings. And the styling's all CSS. Just plain as CSS, CSS variables, which again, you can modify according to the hash. So super easy to generate lots of variations. And I think that's a wrap. Thank you. Wow. Very neat. Any questions? No question. Oh, the shapes in the background are also procedurally driven. So the same hash function that is used for the animation is actually dictating the position and the rotation and the angle of those flying shapes in the back So you see it the same for each frame because it based on the content of the frame itself So the slides are maybe that? The slides are all svelte and reveal.js. Again, should have used PowerPoint, but why? interesting james you mentioned before something about um motion blur obviously that's like a interpolation problem and then you mentioned that you might want to take it a next step and do something with svg can you release it it's really interesting so uh let's last few points so yeah um svgs are really good to work with in svelt i've done loads of kind of actually the this is all svg except the 3d bits which are um throughout and the previous video i show like the bubbles the shapes those are generally all svgs um it basically works as if you're manipulating the dom um and you can do lots of nifty reactive stuff with it i mentioned svgs in particular because there are filters that you can use on SVG to add things like Gaussian blur. And that is off the top of my head, the only way I can think of actually adding blur to the browser. I know there's some basic CSS that does kind of gloss like blur, but obviously websites were not built to include motion blur. It's not really a feature you want in your website. so kind of hacking in motion blur into something like this just to get slightly more naturalistic looking motion that'll be an interesting problem to solve I think for the next weekend I feel like sleeping weekend or six there's also there's also Wasm and WebGL you can include all of that in this because it's just a browser so worst case scenario we'll just write a custom shader and never sleep again any more questions? Okay, so before we go to you, does anyone consume any YouTube content on Svelte creators? So there's a guy called Joy of Code, Mattia, I think the guy's name is, and he's done some really interesting stuff with, I think he's got a package called Remotion, and there's some bits in there where he's like...

 directly manipulating SVGs. And I think it's really flexible, so you can do stuff with that if you need to know that. So, sorry, I'll just go over here and hand the microphone over. Sure. Thank you, a great job. One thing, well, I used Remotions while I go, and one thing that we can then do is use CSS animations. Is it something the same with Svelte animations? I mean, you have to use... Yeah, so that's... Let me take that. Are we recording this? Am I speaking to this? Okay. So hello, people on the internet. That is, yeah, that is the one thing it can't do. In fact, there's a comment somewhere in the annotated source code. So the CSS animations don't hook into the JavaScript clock. So when you pause the JavaScript clock, they just keep going. what you could do hypothetically again if you hated yourself a bit is use like css variables possibly to kind of adjust at what point your css animation is and then set those css variables from javascript and the css will pick up those variables and adjust off that um it would probably kind of work although i'm not sure how you'd go about staggering a css animation specifically with the use of CSS variables. But also, given performance isn't a major issue because you're rendering individual frames anyway, I don't think you're losing much like doing it through JavaScript directly. You normally wouldn't because performance is horrible and CSS is geared towards getting animations right. But if you're rendering frame by frame, you don't really have that performance level issue. If you were really serious about it, you did more than that. I was just thinking you can control the CSS in like a custom actions you have access to download and you can tap the CSS there and decide what the animation to play at like on the top of Google blogs there something you can do and I even set property and there CSS tags which looks very clever but I haven touched it yet I can have a dig around the market and find it I think there's a bit ways to control it. I'm not sure how I choose it would be to. We're just having a chit-chat, sorry. Anyone else got any questions? I'll go to the back. I'm still up. It's accessible. Take a minute. that looks amazing really good work um i just wondered with the react library that you looked at that you're obviously heavily inspired by did you look at like i'm guessing you did look at how they did things and like obviously you went down the route of doing this with playwright and that kind of stuff what was that journey like in terms of like being like oh that's how they've done things and how close did you go with what they had away you a bit like that's one way but my way it's going to be completely different, it's more stealthy. What was that process? I'll pass the mic back. I just realised, I thought I'd save myself time by going back. I've got a question next. I could just walk there as well, just that I won't show up dancing around. I know we want that. So I did, to be honest, for some of the solutions to the problems I hit, like especially the hashing and kind of getting the thing to look the same every frame that is directly lifted from remotion i looked like the previous version of this had um their hashing algorithm titled as implemented by remotion but then i found that this algorithm is slightly better for varying degrees of better um so a lot of of how they solve the problem of how do we get the browser to spit out video um i think very similar they are using headless browsers as well like it's all headless chrome i think i'm not sure i imagine i'm reasonably sure they have something slightly more sophisticated put together regarding actually spinning up the browsers because again you can do it uh cloud-based uh whereas i just threw it into playwright and kicked it until it spat out frames um i don't think i don't think there's anything apart from actually using svelte that i handled in a particularly different way except you know things like tweens in built into svelte um what else does this do like mostly the yeah it mostly disvelts stuff like the initial question was how can i do exactly this but not have to write react um so that yeah that's how i approached it this is good James so I noticed using windows never mind my question was when I watched your playwright very slowly spitting it out frame by frame because windows are very slow I was thinking like I guess it's using Chrome right? It is. What if you used like JS DOM or some other kind of non-browser I guess it's headless Chrome but something like JS DOM which is arguably sometimes faster than even though it's less feature supporting. Have you tried it? Have you seen what your video looked like? And what's the speed difference? JS DOM is faster but I'm still here. JS DOM is faster, but it's mostly faster because it doesn't actually render any of the UI. You don't see anything with JS DOM. It's all faking. The way that it's smaller, faster, and lighter is that they just throw out all the rendering stuff, which is the hard part. It just writes the DOM tree, which is why it just prints out the DOM tree, which is useful for testing of elements and things are there, but it's why it's actually a bit of a problem. Like some of the drawbacks of doing testing with JS DOM is that you never see what it looks like. You can't test the CSS that you've added to your element as the right text, but you can't do visual diff testing with JS DOM because there's no actual visual. You could do exactly the same thing, but with like Firefox with, I don't know why I picked Chrome. Probably the fastest, to be honest. Headless cranes. I think it was either. Do you need something to actually run in the GPU? That would be your, like, if you're using WebGL, that's pushed to the GPU. If you doing like most of the visual stuff the browsers themselves offload to the GPU So you can generally leave that up to them What about canvas and screenshots in the canvas or exporting the canvas data If you wrote to the canvas, it could... Yeah, but that's it, but then it's not HTML. All the things I saw went HTML, right? But JavaScript in the canvas. But you could still do that, so you could still load up canvas, put stuff on canvas, and just again, frankly, it still doesn't work in canvas. Aha. Like, I wanted to avoid learning too much. I wanted to avoid learning a new technology, so instead I wrote one, which is not a solution retrospectively. So what if we start with energy? Good. Thanks. That's good. There's someone to spend some time. Slightly related. Was the choice as felt because it gave you an easy way to build a UI that you could road test your animation? and in terms of the project structure and obviously i'll go and have a look myself but these the scenes are part of the project itself so if i wanted to do my stuff i would fork your repo i'd do my own stuff and do you have any interest whatsoever in making it slightly more modular so that you could have it as a library that you could point to just a bunch of a bunch of scenes in a different project that was spelled parrot yes good yeah okay so um yep um basically so for the first bit svelte yes i have actually built other kind of interactive uis um animation based ui with svelte um i do quite a bit of like generative svg stuff and again instead of manually writing dom code to tweak svgs you just plunk the moon's belt components it's um it's fully declarative and you get the tweens and you can easily generate variations of svgs so this was kind of a natural progression from that and that um it's super easy to generate relatively complex artwork with svg through svg rather than either writing it myself or i had done some stuff with react but it was quite complex and it slowed to accrual when I needed it to animate or just wanted to do variations of it. So Zvelt was, I've already done SVGs and shapes and design, designy stuff in Zvelt. I know it's good from performance level.

 And I like it more than I like writing React. So kind of tick those boxes for me. Regarding making it more consumable, I don't think it's too hard, honestly. So the stuff I'm actually doing is pretty simple. There's like those eight little chunks of code. They're just hack here, hack here, little bit of possibly slightly nifty idea and lifted from somewhere else here. And this is basically just as a Velocity project. so it wouldn't be too tricky to either generate a create kind of a create app instance that builds off of Svelte or a separate NPM library that you could pull into your own SvelteKit there's nothing that's changed from the SvelteKit configuration itself except Vite by default does not let you import stuff that's outside your source folder and I decided literally for this demo I'd have the assets and the scenes at the top of the top. There is config for it, but for some reason, in my first project, it didn't show me the error, which is adjust this config. So I wasted two hours of Sunday evening trying to find out that this thing wasn't loading. And then I spun up a completely separate project and tried to do exactly the same thing. And lo and behold the error popped up adjust this config And then I went to sleep But yeah it all there nothing that out of the ordinary from the core SvelteKit config It means we can migrate to Svelte 5 in a couple of months easy that's right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right all right so I guess we're going to stop recording Nicholas have you got any closing words I don't okay do I stop recording I suppose you don't mean people to hear being idiot putting my windows left up now Thanks to everyone for the great talks that we had today. I just want to say quickly, the next meetup for World Society is also here on the 20th of March. So if you know anybody or would like to invite more friends, please do so. You have to get plenty of space. Thanks for coming. I hope you enjoyed the talks. I hope you enjoyed the space. if you have any comments about any any part of the whole event to let us know on WhatsApp and this is the guy that you need to speak to if you want to link to the whole talk to him