 Okay so this is Svelte Zen Garden. It's like a really random project that I undertook recently just because I got the inspiration. Okay so does everyone know what CSS Zen Garden is? So it's like it's like this exercise where you can kind of look through the same HTML but everyone just applies different different CSS and you can see how different it is. And one of the, you know, and this is kind of like the, this was kind of like the hotness 10 years ago and I was just looking at this and I was thinking, you know what would be better if we just did this but it was spelled? So that's kind of what I did. And so I think one of the first things that I wanted to outline was how to do it differently. One of the things I definitely wanted to change was that the old site used PHP, and I do not want to use PHP, so I moved to a JaxStack, just partially because I work on Netlify, and the whole thing is cheaper, because it's all static sites. And then I also wanted to do live editing of CSS, so I wanted the things to update as I edited the CSS. And I wanted a shareable URL. That's something that I really enjoyed about the Svelte REPL, that you could save, essentially a gist of whatever your code is and share it around. And it was just a very nice way to check or just to do a small demo without too much hassle. Okay, so the first thing I had to figure out was how to do dynamic CSS itself. I wanted to do this, I actually tried this because I was dumb enough to think it would work. So a Svelte single file component, if you've seen it, it has a JavaScript section, the CSS section and it has an HTML section. And I was like, oh, I can interpolate my JavaScript in HTML so I can do that in CSS, no. And this just gets directly printed to the style sheet, I guess, and that never changes again. So nope, that doesn't work. You could also try CSS variables. This is actually a proposal in Svelte for the last three years now. So instead of, just to drill down on what the difference is, here I'm actually giving the entire CSS string, whereas the CSS variable is just like, do you want a number, do you want a color, a much smaller thing, rather than you're setting entire properties at once. Anyway, so this is the proposed syntax, but it doesn't look likely that we'll get there. So the thing I came up with was CSS and JS and Svelte, And essentially using the spelled head sort of component, attaching it onto the head of the document when the component mounts. So you have a special ID tag that you have there. And then when you render on mounts, you sort of get it. And then you set inner HTML, obviously, about the CSS. It's kind of janky. I don't know if that's the best way to do it, but it worked. And I'm definitely aware that real CSS and JS libraries actually insert rules using the CSS style sheet method over there, but the problem is you have to parse rule by rule, and you can't just dump entire chunks of CSS into your style sheet at once, so I did not do that. So let's actually see, well, I had a demo. Yeah, so that actually my first two rules, and let's actually see a demo of that over here. So again, it's such a nice thing to have a REPL that you can just click on and see sample code. So it's only like 19 lines of code, and that gives you this little text box where you can edit the CSS that applying to it which is kind of fun What other properties can I do Everyone favorite color So, like, that's nice. I think customization of the web, like, we should not be held hostage, essentially, to the decisions that the designers made for us. If you know CSS, it's a superpower, you can apply it to every site. Anyway, so then I was like, all right, this is kind of ugly. I wanted syntax highlighting, right? This is kind of like, I don't know whether I'm right or not, it just looks like an error. So I wanted to apply syntax highlighting. I only know three ways to do it. So Prism is, whoa. Prism is kind of like the de facto blogging standard. Everyone in the Gatsby world uses it. Highlight.js also exists. And Monaco is the one that is used in VS Code. and it was all my to-do list to play around in Monaco. So I tried it out, except that that is the entirety of the docs, and there's no getting started. It's just like, here's the entire API reference, good luck. So it took a while to figure out. So here's a simple Monaco example. This took me a couple hours to figure out. That's where you need to go to figure it out, because they have sample code, they just don't tell you about it. And so basically, it's a very simple, like you import whatever is Monaco, and then on mount, you just mount the editor, and then you attach it to a DOM element. So the Monaco editor lives entirely outside as well. And when the component gets destroyed, you should also dispose of that editor as well. So that's a very simple flow to set up the editor, right? But then you also have to, oh, and it doesn't work with Rola too bad. That's also a, that's how to set up the editor, but then you also need to get data flowing to and from Svelte and Monaco, right? So then you have to do this syncing thing, and it took another few minutes of research to figure out what exactly the API was to get there. So if you ever need to do this, that's how you do it. But I think it's, anyone here who messes around with UI frameworks should understand when to, when you hit the limits of UI framework and you have to interact with something else, you should know how to sync data back and forth between them because it's a very common task. Cool, so we got, we've grown our scope a little bit, we added syntax highlighting, and that's something I didn't start out with, but I was just like, I'm not happy live editing CSS, which is not syntax highlighted, and I still have to do my shareable URL. But then I was like, oh, what if it's draggable? So, because I was like, I want to edit while I look at the thing I edit, and if it gets in the way, I want to move it around. And so I was like, oh, I remember something like this in the Svelte examples. And that's where I found Svelte actions. I've never used them. I still don't know what they are. But I clicked on the examples, right? And then, I mean, when you learn Svelte, you just kind of scroll through all of this and just see what it's capable of doing, especially for those who want you to hear. So this one, it has this amount of code. and it lets you drag and drop, right? Which is exactly what I want. I wanted like a small little editor that I can move around in the window. And I could just drag and drop it, drop it around. What you, essentially I think, what actions are, again, correct me if I'm wrong, but what actions are, and so an action, right, like gives you, basically exports all these methods. And it really like binds some, I guess, custom events to adopt your element. So that when you import it, for example, this is the panelable action and you just use panelable over here you have new events that you can listen to so I can use Panable over here and I can listen to onPanStart that not a that not a DOM event that that a custom event that was emitted by by the Panable action and it's all pure JS over here so meaning that none of this is actually is felt specifically like actually could work with local units or whatever else, their framework, except for React. So, yeah, so I've implemented dragability with these lines of code, which is ridiculous. It's so super easy. So let's actually try it out. This is a deploy preview, so it's just like the initial working version. So here's a very basic ZenGarden, And let's actually try to do, for example, something like a body, what's a good CSS thing to mess around with? Max with? Yeah, 69 characters. Marching, auto, of course, right? What else? Yeah, and then you can drag it around if it gets in the way. You're like, I want this. What else? Sansara. Sansara for the font. You know, I never mess around with Comic Sans. Oh, of course, I'm sorry. Forgive me. Is it Phone Family, Comic Sans? Is that how it works? You know, I never handwrite. Comic Sans and I. I never handwrite my fonts. I just put my person. What was that? I never handwrite my fonts. I just copy and paste. Anyway, you see, you get this really nice functionality with the elements that we've just introduced, like CSS with JS, dragability, monocle. Good. I'm done, right? Nope. So I haven't implemented shareable URL, but my scope creeps a little bit. Dragable, fine. All right, let's implement a shareable URL. I stuck my CSS, that CSS string in a Svelte store that's right up top, the writable thing over there. And then I guess the way I did this, again, I don't know if it's right, but I was like, all right, I'm just gonna inspect CSS coming in, and if it looks like a URL, and I'm gonna try resolving that URL, if it looks like a URL, I'm gonna go fetch that URL from a gist, and then I'll get the contents of that gist and apply it as a style sheet to my site. Alright, so basically, it's this concept that every single site you can customize a style sheet, and the site just remembers. So, that's like theming for every site that you ever visit. So here's a gist, for example, that just contains a little bit of CSS, right, that I've just saved for myself. So now when I punch this in, Svelte knows how to go get it. I mean, let me just, I'll just copy this gist, and I'll delete the styling, and I'll paste in the style sheet, and then it goes and grabs that CSS. So it's like a nice way to, I guess, have shareable URLs, because I could also instead of doing this manual pasting thing, I could just stick it in the URL bar, and that includes the styling now. So it automatically resolves that styling. And it eventually loads, if it loads, if I didn't break it. I mean, I'm not misworking at that point. Anyway. Did you do slash, or was it supposed to be like question mark or something? It's supposed to be just a drag. I was just supposed to tag it on there. Here, here's, I did a good example here. Oh, there we go. Path. Yeah oh path yeah I couldn get that exact thing going on here So yeah so the base URL and then you attach it like a path parameter with the gist of the CSS and it applies that CSS on itself. Isn't that nice? That's an interesting customization technique. There is an once-a-course, because I'm on HTTPS, and you're putting in another HTTPS domain, so you should set up a service function or something. If you want to figure that out, I can show you. Okay, cool. Alright, so we implemented everything, and I was ready to send this out, and I was like, project done, pencils down. Except that I had this friend, and he was like, this is really cool, but I bet you could make this even cooler, because it's hard to figure out what element you're trying to style, right? You gotta go inspect the style sheet. How about if you don't do that, and you just hover over an element, and it tells you what element it is, what classes it has, what idea it has. Then I was like, nah, but then I'll be building workflow. He was like, all right, fine, fine. And then I think 20 minutes later, I'll be like, yeah, but yeah, it'll be cool. And then 20 minutes later, I'll be like, ha, ha. So this kind of conversation you have, I think it's pretty fun. The kind of thing where you start out saying no, and then you're just asking yourself if you're whipping out just because it's too hard. It actually was a little hard for me because I've never figured out, like CSS that doesn't trigger a relay out, I know that exists, I don't know how to do that. But anyway, so I figured it out. I'm not gonna teach CSS here, but basically what I have right now is this editable thing and then you hover over it and it tells you what element you're hovering over. And it's all done in Svelte and you can go check it out. But one nice last effect that I can just show you, For example, here I have a page wrapper up there. So I'm gonna say, for example, page wrapper, display grid, love grid. Who likes grid here? Lights right? One FR, no, nothing? You're saying one fraction's anymore than, yeah. Another one FR, woo. Like these technologies did not exist in the original CSS Zen Garden. And to redo them again is so, it's just fun. It's just like, let's just, we can remember what the web is always about. Zen explanation, all right, let's do. It would be great if you can just click on this. It adds a style. Right. In it. Right, and if you want that, go to workflow.com. And then I always want to show up, people don't realize that you can do in your gradient backgrounds. Use a semicolon instead of a colon. Ah, that's fun. And ah, all right, terrible CSS. But it makes it fun again, because you can just drag things around and identify it. And it gives you that flow. And once you're done, you copy, paste into the gist, share it, whatever. I don't know, for me, messing around with Svelte like reignites that passion for just like messing around with raw HTML CSS JS writing as close to the metal as possible. One final note, Monaco is pretty big so it was 679 kilobytes and I just did this like couple lines of change switching into a dynamic import and then just cut it down to 11 kilobytes delivering all the functionality and load KB. It's pretty good. Yeah so that's the full list of features I ended up with, a lot more that I signed up for, but it's a lot of fun. You can see my full write-up on my site, swix.io, or you can ping me on Twitter, and you can see the demos of it. Thank you.