 Hey friends, what's up? In today's video I want to answer one simple question. Is Svelte ready for production? Spoilers, it is. So I honestly never get this question because Svelte isn't that new of a framework anymore. If you can see here, Svelte was released actually 7 years ago to this date, right? And to be fair, Svelte wasn't popular until Svelte 3, which again was released in 2019. Alright, so I didn't want to make you feel old, but here it is, right? So people always frame Svelte as this new, hot and fresh JavaScript framework, but it's really not, right? So for references, I'm going to use this Svelte site, I'm going to use Awesome Svelte Kit, I'm going to use this blog post, and I'm going to look at Weppalizer to get all of these awesome sites. So I'm going to put all of these resources in the description. And before I get started, don't forget to like and subscribe, and you can also support me by becoming a patron. for reference i try to do my best to make sure that these sites actually are using cell because things change right maybe people change their text they can etc and i only try to include sites that are fully using swell so for example if you look at here for example companies like one password use swell for their inputs they don't use it for everything and that is something that you're going to see with all of the sites they love all of these technologies you're going to see they use react they use view they use felt because they probably internally have different teams so they have their own preferences of a tech stack so that's what it is all right but i think the most important thing is to start at the beginning so this is something also that's really amusing to me svelte was always ready for production because svelte was made in production at the new york times where the creator of svelte rich harris worked before as a graphics editor so you can see here this tracker any interactive article or post on the new york time is using swell so how beautiful is this friend so if we check out this extension vaporizer we can see that it uses swell and let's see it even uses swell kit right so it detected the ui framework and how awesome is this and you can see some other investigative journalism pieces so this is bots on social media i think and you can see this form of scrolly telling so if we scroll down here we can see this awesome article on the new york times and yeah how awesome is that so we can look So let's look at some other things, just because I think it's so fascinating. So for example, we can see here the coverage of the Olympics, and they can't actually show the footage from the Olympics because they don't have the broadcasting rights. So Rich Harris and the team at the New York Times made this awesome visualization using FFmpeg and Svelte And you can see this looks really cool And we can also see this is true if we go to another article So here we have something about track running, so we can press play. And you can see this beautiful visualization. And how beautiful is this, friends? So this is all made with Svelte. if we check here let's see what's going on here we can see here is svelte as you can see the new york time also uses react and these other things but yeah how beautiful is this here we have swell kit of course and then let's go to some other awesome sites so let's look at app right and app right is really awesome so you get the database functions and storage for your product i think this can be self-hosted and they also have a cloud solution so maybe you want to check this out as As you can see here, they also have some beautiful animations, right? And this is all made with Svelte and SvelteKit probably. So let's just see what it's using. So you can see, yeah, it's Svelte and UI Framework SvelteKit. And another similar product is Pocketbase. So this is an open source backend for your next software as a service and mobile app in one file. So you get a real-time database, authentication, file storage, and an admin dashboard. And they used SvelteKit for this. we can see uiframework svelte kit uses svelte so you can check this out i think this is also self-hosted and maybe they have a cloud solution i'm sure i never tried pocketbase but it's something i might try so let me know if you're interested in that all right so ai is a hot thing and one of the hottest companies is probably hugging face so they have these awesome ai data models so you can go to their site you can look at this they also use svelte for their site so we can look here what to use and on some of this it's really not accurate so for example here it doesn't have anything but if i use the scientific method and open the elements let's just search for svelte and you can see here we can see svelte so they're using svelte for this side how beautiful is this trans and since you're speaking about ai here is gradio so again i think this is really similar i'm not an ai expert i just think this this is really fascinating so So they make this really simple to use interfaces for machine learning models and etc. So you can check out these sites if you want. But yeah, let's look at another example. So syntax.fm is probably one of the most popular development podcasts. And this entire site is actually made with SvelteKit. And the source is open to the public So you can see JavaScript Framework Svelte You can see UI Framework kit and this site is really well done of course by wesboss and scott talinski this is really awesome and yeah that's it we can navigate we can go to the shows so we can see this awesome navigation we can see the built-in svelte transition so how beautiful is that but yeah that's basically it's syntax fm so let's look at another website which is level up video by Scott Linsky. So this also is made with SvelteKit. So this entire course platform uses SvelteKit. So does Svelte scale? I don't know. You tell me, right? So if this is good for this, then it's good for anything, right? And another beautiful thing, this recently got acquired by Sentry. So all of this content on this site is actually free. So take advantage of it, go to level up video, and you can pick up any course you want. There's awesome courses on Svelte, JavaScript, React, whatever else you want so this is now totally free because scott now works full-time on syntaxfm so yeah that was part of the century deal and now we can take advantage of it how beautiful is this friends all right friends so you might have heard of fireship and he also based his entire course platform on svelte slash svelte kid i think i'm not sure let's see so he's using svelte right it doesn't mention svelte kid but yeah he is really a big fan of svelte and his entire course platform uses it and you can see it's beautiful all right so let's look at another ui library so this is the most popular component library for tailwind css daisyui this also uses svelte so if we can see here javascript frameworks it says swell right and it uses also svelte kid tailwind and all that other good stuff you can see a bunch of other useful information when you look at these sites and this site is also beautifully designed so we can look at this this is really interesting and we can just scroll to it let's see can i toggle this oh so you can see tailwind only so now when we switch to tailwind plus daisy you really don't have the soup of class names right so how beautiful is this friends all right so you might have heard of this root company i don't know they're fairly niche i never heard of it but what is this apple huh weird so we can see here is music.apple.com and this entire thing is using Svelte so we can see the technology javascript framework Svelte all right so speaking of music you probably heard of spotify right and while they aren't using Svelte for their music app or whatever else if i'm not mistaken i looked into it and they use Svelte mostly for their marketing pages so here's spotify where it's premium we can look at what they use you can see they use everything they use react they use Svelte Next and etc And also they use Svelte for the Spotify rewind So that entire experience is made with Svelte I think All right, so let's look at another huge company, which is Square, I think. And this is a payment processor. So everything here you see is using Svelte. So if we look at Webplizer, we can see that the JavaScript frameworks are using Svelte. Very interesting, GCEP JavaScript framework. That's very interesting. But yeah. Alright, so moving along, you might have heard of this niche company called IKEA, and they actually use Svelte for their site. So if we can check out Resultic Frameworks, here you can see they're using Svelte. How beautiful is this? So we can peruse their site, which is really clean and minimal, as you expect from IKEA, right? But yeah, that's really awesome. Alright, so here is another relatively niche site stack overflow. And of course, they don't use Svelte for everything. as you're going to see they use all the technology because they have different teams so if we look at here they actually use view for everything here and nuxt but what they're starting to use svelte for is a component system and they're also exploring cell kit for some other things so they really love svelte and svelte is always on the top of the stack overflow survey for the most beloved javascript framework and so you don't think that i'm making things up let's actually go to the article from the blog post you can actually listen to this podcast episode so here is this article why stack overflow is embracing soiled so i'm going to also link that in the description if you want to listen to it so it's really an interesting listen they explain what you're using it for on stack overflow and yeah if you're interested in that and then the last cool site the brave search engine so if you go to searchbrave.com and look what they use we can see they use Svelte and they also use SvelteKit here as you can see so they use this for the site itself and for the other apps that you can get here so for example if i press 2 plus 2 so Svelte is actually powering these widgets that you see here and how beautiful is this friends all right so the next time when someone asks hey does Svelte work in production does Svelte scale just link them to this video so they can check them out for themselves all right friends so basically that's That's it, if you like what you've seen don't forget to like and subscribe and you can also support me by becoming a patron. Thank you for watching and catch you in the next one. Peace!