 Hey friends, today we're going to learn how to make beautiful and professional looking slides with Svelte. You might be wondering why I'm on this site slides.com and you probably heard of it or even used it, but did you know that it's actually powered by an open source framework called Reveal.js. I'm going to show you how you can implement that in Svelte to make beautiful presentations with ease. As you can see here, here we can go through this slide, it has normal slides, it has vertical slides, so if I go back and go down you can go to the vertical slides. and you can also animate call block which is really awesome. It uses highlight.js so as you can see here you can animate between call blocks so if you're making presentations or maybe educational videos even, right? I can really see this being a good use case for that. And this is one of my favorite features auto-animate so you can animate between any state in your slides thanks to the flip animation technique so pay attention to what happens to the boxes when you animate between the slides. How beautiful is this, friends, right? Look at this. How awesome is that? and yeah it has a lot of things battle tested so this is something that you can actually use because this isn't some pro a tutorial project right this is a battle tested library that has existed for years which you can actually use i really encourage you to go through here and read documentation so you can use markdown you can have backgrounds media code even math if you need that so you can import catX or whatever. You can customize it using themes. Here are some default themes where you can make your own theme or use the CSS variables provided by reveal.js to style it, which we're going to do a bit. As you can see, here is a lot of options and that's really awesome. And also we're going to use Tailwind CSS for the styling. I know, I know some people don't like Tailwind but that's okay. If you don't like Tailwind, you don't have to use it. But I think Tailwind is a perfect fit in this case because when you're making slides, you can just go blazingly fast by typing your styles in line like this. All right, so I'm excited to get started. All right, so let's quickly set up SvelteKit and Tailwind. You don't have to use SvelteKit because you're not going to take advantage of things like server-side rendering. So if you want it, you can use the VT CLI to scaffold a regular Svelte project, but I always prefer to create a SvelteKit project in case I change my mind in the future. So inside of the terminal, I'm inside of an empty project. I can say PNPM, create Svelte, and just give it a second. so I'm going to create inside this empty project I going to pick a skeleton project I going to pick Tiescript which is purely optional you don have to use Tyscript and then I just going to select ESLint and Prettier and that basically it So now I can say pnpmi to install the dependencies and that it And to set up Tailwind, we're going to use the Svelte add package, so we can say pnpx Svelte add Tailwind CSS, and this is going to set up Tailwind CSS with SvelteKit in a second, and basically that's it for our setup, but now we just need to install Reveal.js, so now we're going to say pnpm i i'm going to say reveal.js i'm going to install add types reveal.js if you're using TypeScript if you're not then it's optional and then i'm also going to install some fonts which i'm going to use so i'm going to say font source manorope and i'm going to say font source jetbrains mono and i'm going to press enter and it should add the dependencies awesome and now we can run the development server and everything should work fine So let's see if Tailwind works. So it should be localhost 5173. And I already see it works because this is the default what you get with Tailwind, this unstyled page. All right, so that's it for the setup. All right, friends, so we're going to initialize Reveal.js. So if we go to the documentations and if we look at the installation steps, we already installed it from the NPM step. As you can see, it's simple as adding the Reveal.js import. Reveal has a couple of plugins that come by default, but you can also pick from a lot of community plugins. So I'm going to use the Markdown plugin, I'm going to use the Speaker plugin, so you can see your notes when you're doing a presentation, and I'm also going to use a Highlight plugin for the syntax highlighting. But before we get started, let's look at the project. So source routes, and layout was created because we used Tailwind, but in this case we're not going to use layout or pages, because this is basically a single page application, so let's just copy this import, and we're going to delete this plus layout.swealth file. I'm going to go to page.svelte, remove here. I'm going to use my snippet. And then I'm just going to copy this over. And one more thing I'm going to do inside routes, I'm going to say new file plus page.ts and I'm going to disable server-side rendering because it's going to cause problems as Reveal.js is going to use some browser APIs. So we're going to avoid those problems just by saying export const server-side rendering is equal to false. All right, so I can close this file and in plus page.svelte, I'm going to import a Slides component, which we're going to create, and this is going to initialize our deck. So I can say Import Slides From and I going to create this folder in a second So I going to say libdeck slides and I just going to use it here And that's it. And let's also use Svelte head. And then we can give the page a title. We can say presentation. Alright, so we can go to the sidebar and in source I'm going to create a new file. I'm going to create a lib folder. I'm going to create a deck folder and I'm going to create a slides.svelte component. So as you can see here it is inside of lib and now we're going to initialize reveal.js here. So I can create a script tag and then I can say import reveal from reveal.js and then we can do the same thing as they do in the documentation. We can say markdown from reveal.js and then we can go to the plugin markdown and we also have to say markdown one more time like this and you don't have to specify a file extension it's just going to pick it up so i'm going to have a markdown plugin i also want a highlight plugin and you can learn all of this by reading their documentation so i can say highlight and i think is the same thing. Let's see. We can say highlight. And yeah, we can say highlight. Awesome. And then I want speaker notes. So I'm going to say notes. Let's just replace these two notes. And that's basically that. And now we have to use on mount to initialize this. So when the component is created, because reveal.js hooks itself into the DOM, so the elements have to exist on the page. And we can say on mount, press enter, and it should be auto-imported from Svelte. And you can say on mount, let's give it a callback. And now we can say const deck new reveal, and then you can say deck initialize, and that's basically it. But you can also pass more things to the deck. As you can see in their example, they passed the plugins here in new reveal, the constructor. You can also pass it to the initializer. I'm going to do it like that. I'm just going to say plugins. Then you can specify an array of plugins. Then I'm going to say markdown, highlight, and notes. And inside of the reveal constructor you can also specify some options So you can specify auto animate options so you can say auto animate easing you can specify the duration auto animate duration say one second and you can specify things like a hash so it's going to show numbers for your slide in your url and you can use other options like controls which is true by default you can use progress which is also true by default, but you can disable this if you want. And then we also need to include a theme, so as you can see here is a presentation theme, so you can use some of these default themes, or you can even make your own. So we're going to go here, I'm going to say import, and this is all included in the reveal.js package, so you don't have to install anything. I'm going to say reveal.js, it's in the dist, so it's reveal.css, so this is the main styles for the slides. Then you're going to go again to the dist, and then you can just peruse this, what's available. Theme, what's inside of themes. We're going to use the default black one, and then we also need styles for the syntax highlighting, so we're going to say plugin highlight. Let's see, it's the, instead of dist, so this is part of the plugin, highlight, and then you can see you have Monokai and Zenburn, but you can change these values, so you're and create your own team. So I'm going to pick Monokai. And let me just really show you how you can easily figure this out. So if you can see, it's in Reveal.js plugin Highlight Monokai. So if you go to your node folders, and you find Reveal.js, and if you're ever wondering how do you change any of this, so Highlight Monokai. So this is Highlight.js, and it has these tokens. You can basically look at this team, you can change these values, or you can use any other theme from highlight.js so if I go to highlight.js it's a bit of an older syntax highlighter but basically anything you have here you can just pick any of these themes here you can see it has really a lot of themes so yes you can pick any of these themes or you can use these values and I'm also going to tweak some of these values a bit later so this is basically it I can close this I'm going to go here let me just save this and everything looks great alright so how does our reveal.js presentation look like. So if we go here, we have the installation, markup. So basically here reveal tells you that you have to include, you have to have a reveal div so you can hook into this.

 And then you have another one which are slides. And now you make a presentation here. So you can see here in this example, you have slides here. And then you just include slides by using section. If I go here and I'm going to save it now. Let me just refresh everything. So you should now see our styles are going to kick in. Reveal is going to be initialized. As you can see here, we have the arrows and we can control the slide. And how awesome is this, friends? This is really simple. So now we're just going to use Swell to make this even simpler and easier to use. And of course, always console the documentation because you can do a lot of things. So if you look at the code here, it shows you what you have to do to include a code example. All right, but what I'm going to do, I'm going to create a presentation component. And inside of there, we're going to include all of our slides. So we're going to create a slides component, a code component, and a notes component, I think, and including a markdown component. And then you can extend it or change it from there however you want. Alright, so basically it doesn't exist yet, but I'm going to import it here. I'm going to say import presentation from presentation.swealth. And now we can use it here. And that's going to be awesome. Alright, so I don't think we have to make any changes to this file anymore, so I'm going to close this. Same with this file. I'm going to go now to the lib. I'm going to collapse everything. Source, lib, dec, and now we can create presentation.swelt. And now inside of this call block, we're going to import our components so we can start building a presentation. And the first component I'm going to make is going to be the slide, of course. So I'm going to say new file, slide.swelt. And let me just close the sidebar. And this is going to be a really simple component. So I can say script. We're going to have three props. ID, animate, and restart. So I'm going to say export let ID. And this is going to be of type string or null. And I'm going to pass it null by default. And I'm going to say export let animate. It's going to be false by default. and also export let restart. I'm going to say false. And you're going to see what you're going to use it for So again we just going to create a section as before because that required by reveal And then we just going to use a slot So we going to pass anything we want inside of here. Let me just make room. So we're going to include some data attributes. This is how reveal.js hooks into elements. We're going to say data auto animate ID. And this ID is important if you want to animate some elements that aren't related. So for example, how reveal.js looks up elements is it says okay if you have a h1 and they're the same that's probably what you want to auto animate but sometimes you maybe have things like boxes and then you transition the box to something else but reveal.js doesn't know that it's the same box you want to animate so you can say hey this is the id box so it says okay these are the things i need to animate and i'm going to show you an example of that and then you can say data auto animate and this is really the important part. So if we pass in animate, then it's going to include this attribute. But we have to do this. We have to say or null in case it's not included, because this data attribute is going to be present on the element unless you pass it null. So this is really important. And then we can include another thing, which is data auto animate restart. And you can say restart or null. And if you go to auto animate, you can learn all about this here. So I'm not making it up, right? As you can see here is the auto animate. So it's going to beautifully animate between any transition in your slides. So as you can see here, it knows that this is the same animation because it has the same content implicit implicit. So now you're just going to animate this part, the animation. So if you go to the next slide, it's going to add animation. And it explains here how elements are matched. So this is what I told you about. You might have boxes and now you need to give them an ID. So you're going to see this is also going to animate. Oh, and also my bad, I probably mischaracterized this. This isn't for the animation for the specific elements. This is when you have some elements that are already animating and you want to break out of this animation and start a new slide. So here is an example of that. Let me show you auto-animate ID and restart. So for example, you can see here, here is a group A. And now when it gets to group A, you want to stop using the animation. So you can say data auto-animate. Okay, this is a new slide. And now you can see group A, B. Now it's going to start a new slide. and you can see how beautiful this works. And here is also the restart. So you can restart the animation with the same ID and that's what that is used for. And I also want to emphasize that we only included three attributes but you have a lot more attributes You have backgrounds and etc So you can look at all of that in the documentation you can expand this and change this however you want so you can see here backgrounds you can see there are a lot of data attributes have background color you have gradient backgrounds you can even animate between those let's just see video backgrounds iframe backgrounds you can have parallax effects it's just really crazy what you can do with reveal.js and it's a ton of fun to sweltify it. But yeah, I'm just going to go to auto animate. So we have some of these examples. All right. And that's basically it with this simple and humble component. You can already do a lot. All right. So after we imported this component, we can even take their code example. We can paste it over and instead of section, we can say slide. And now we don't have to specify this attribute. We can just say animate. Let's make some space. And instead of H1, I'm going to use p-tags because these h1 styles and even p-tags have some defaults from reveal.js so we can override them in the global styles or we can specify it even here but let me just use p-tags for now and you can see here if I save this let's go to the presentation so now if I go back one slide you can see auto-animate and then it's going to auto-animate to the next transition and you can even use Tailwind here so we can say class and this is why Tailwind is awesome for this we can say text red, let's see, 600 looks close. So one problem we caught reloading, as you can see we have to change the slide to update it, or in some cases when you're dealing with callbox we're going to have to manually refresh it, which is one downside, but whatever. As you can see here it works, auto animate, and how beautiful is that. And let me just also show you what I mean here, because if we specified margin on this right now it wouldn't work, because .revealP has already some margin styles here. in which case you can probably just use a div so let me just try using a div let me see if that has some styles when you always have problems like this just inspect it, stay calm and see what's going on so now we can see there are no styles applied here so we can use from Tailwind let's say margin top 8 and let me just refresh everything close the developer tools and now you can see it works and you can also have horizontal slides and vertical slides. So if I go here, I can say horizontal slide. You can remove animate. You just copy it over You remove this Now you can just include more slides here Vertical slide 1 say 2 So now let me just go back here. So you have horizontal slide, you have a vertical slide, and how beautiful is that? Alright, so let's create a code component. So we can go to libdeck. I'm going to say code.swelt. And this one is also going to be straightforward, so always console a documentation. And really just because I've done it this way doesn't mean you have to. So of course you can do whatever you want. So if we go to the code here you can see what you have to include. Here is a section, pre and a code. So again I'm going to have export let id. Which is going to be string or null. But I'm going to default it to null. Then we're going to specify lines. So this is going to be a string. So we can even animate and pass it lines. Let me see if there's an example here. So you can see it's going to highlight the third line. that is going to highlight the lines from 8 to 10. So we can do that. This is either going to be a string or boolean because we can only say on the component lines. So we can include the lines without any animation. Then I can say or null. And then we can also say no escape. So let me find this escape. So HTML is going to be escape by default, which you can avoid. And I really think this is redundant in Svelte, how we're going to include the code, because it's not going to be interpreted. All right, so now we just do the same thing they do. We already have a component, so you don't need a section. Now I'm just going to make a pre-tag. I have my snippet, so I can just do that. And then I'm also going to include a code tag. And inside of this code tag, I'm going to include a slot. So we can pass whatever we want here, which is going to be a string of code. And now for pre, we can say data id is equal to id. or null. So let me just make this more readable. Code here. We're going to have a couple of data attributes. Data trim. Data line numbers. So these are going to be lines or null. And then data no escape, which is going to be no escape or null. Alright, so we can save this. And now let's see how we can use this component. So I'm going to copy this over. I'm going to say code. So let me remove this. I'm going to remove this also. And now we can use the code component here.

 and now we can just pass it whatever we want. So we can use the curly boys. Otherwise, Svelte is going to try and interpret this code, but we just want to pass it a string. Now we can start by saying function love. And now if I do this and refresh the presentation, so now you can see here we have the call blocks. We can include the lines. Just refresh this. So you can see here are the lines. And now we can also say animated. But remember how I told you about that ID that you have to include since these are related elements we have to tell reveal.js hey you should probably animate this so now we have another prop id which is going to be code so now when you make a new code you just have to specify the next state and now we can say console.log.svelte so let me just refresh this and now you have function love and you're going to get svelte and you can change this however you want so you can go back to the first block of code let's say this and refresh. So now you can see this is going to be animated in. As you can see here is some overflow thing. I'm really not sure why they don't remove that by default, but we're going to change some global styles in a second. But yeah, now you can see how easy this is. And let me also just show you the power of transitions, because we can have slide here, we can specify animate, but you can literally animate anything. So I can say p transitions and this is very easy with tailwind. We can say uppercase and now you can literally have any elements. This is just html and you can animate between anything. So we can create some boxes. I can say div data id box because this is really important. And now I can say class. So I can use Tailwind. I can say width 100 pixel, height 100 pixel, and then we can say background gray 400. So now we can copy this box over a couple of times, and we have to give it a different ID. Box 2.3. So let's save this and see if it works. And we can also give it a container here. So again, this is just HTML, nothing special. And this is why Tailwind is so awesome. For this, we can go blazingly fast. We can say flex gap2 place content center Just refresh it and you can see how awesome this is And now we just need to specify the next state so this can be whatever You just copy over this block So you can say okay now my boxes are going to change from 100 pixels to 200 pixels And then instead of the first one being gray, we can say red, green, and blue. So now I'm going to save this. And you're going to see how beautiful this is. Here is our code block. You have transitions. Boom. And now they animate between the slides. how awesome is this friends right so you can literally make anything if you remember if we go to reveal.js homepage you can see there on slide this is a really awesome example so basically that's the same thing they've done here auto animates so they transition from the next stage so you specify the boxes in this slide you specify the next transition here and then you specify this element and it looks like magic like look at this how beautiful is this and this is all thanks to the flip animation technique Alright, so let's look at the Markdown component. So you can use Markdown. Markdown is a bit weird because it doesn't have all the power of HTML, but if you want to make a simple presentation, Markdown is great. So you can use this to make slides. You can space it with three dashes. So we already included the plugin. You can use external Markdown files. Then you can even include slide attributes and other things like this. So let me show you how that looks like. I'm going to go to the sidebar. Cider Deck. I'm going to add a markdown component. And this should probably be two separate components, but whatever. So how this is going to work, I'm going to create a script. I'm going to say export let. So this is going to be, if we pass an external prop, it's going to look for the example MD. And now we're going to need to pass a let external, which is going to be false by default. So now we can use an if block A. If this should be an external markdown file, then we can use the section and we can pass it the prop from the documentation data markdown name and we can go here we can say otherwise we can close the if block so now we can just use a regular markdown block and it's the same thing as it shows in the documentation so I can say section it needs to have data markdown and they show a text area but that's really problematic in Svelte because Svelte leaves a text area blank so you can use any other element and thankfully the only thing Reveal cares about is that it has this data attribute data template So in my case I going to use a div and I going to say data template And inside of here we can just pass a slot All right so in our presentation let me just remove all of this so it doesn't bother us. And I can just copy over this block and I can say markdown. So let's try a basic markdown file like this. And again, we're going to need the curly boys. So let's even take their example here. and this is the odd thing if you're going to use markdown inside of here, so for example this is going to work great markdown hello, let me just save this and you can see this works great, but this gets awkward when you're trying to do cold blocks like this because if I copy this over now we have a problem because you need to escape this backticks, right you can save it like this it should work, no problem so you can see here is how we include the language which is a downside with a regular location file because I don't know how you can specify the language because they just let highlight.js select the language with the text. As you can see, the advantage here of markdown is you can actually specify the language and now we can also pass the line, so this should work. Let me just refresh everything. And you can see here, you can even auto-animate between these states. But as I said, this is a bit awkward. And if you want to do something like this, I advise you to use an external markdown file. So we can do it like this. We can say markdown. let's see, name, example.md, this is already by default, but I just want to show you. And now we can also specify external. Let me just copy over this code block and remove this. And now it's going to locate from the root of your project, so we can include it inside static. We can go here, new file, example.md, and now we can say here slide1, hello. Now we can space it out, we can say slide2. Let's include our call block. Now you don't have to escape it anymore. Let me just push it here. And awesome! This should now work. Let me save this. Let me just remove all of this here. Oh, I forgot to save this file. So let's just restart everything. Okay, so now we get slide 1. Hello! So now you're using markdown. You can write your entire presentation in markdown. And you can see everything works great. But of course this isn't as powerful as just using HTML, but if this is something that you want to use, go ahead. And the last thing I want to show you is notes because you probably want speaker notes let me just see if I can find it speaker view okay so here is how you do it so let me just open the sidebar inside our deck I'm going to say notes and this is probably going to be the simplest one so you can just copy over what they have this is just going to be an aside element with class notes then we can just pass it a slot here and you activate notes by pressing s on the keyboard again this is in documentation press the s key on your keyboard to open the notes window so when you're doing a presentation this is only going to show for you so you're going to get the clock what your next slide is and etc and let's just try it out here if i go to the presentation so we can just do a regular slide I'm going to remove this let's just make a regular slide so you can say slide and now you can include your notes so let's go here alright so you can save this and now if I refresh everything here now you can press S and this is going to open a new window and I have a title window manager this looks weird But you can see here you have all of the information. So now you can go to your next slide and you know to be prepared in advance. All right. And how awesome is that, friends? You can customize this however you want. One last thing I want to show you is how you can style Reveal.js. So if you go here to the theming section, let me just look for themes. You can go here. Let me just look for variables. So you can use custom properties. You can even build your own theme. So if you go to the custom properties, you can see everything that's available to you that you can style. So in this case I'm going to press Ctrl P, let's find the post.css file. So we can go here and let me just first import the fonts we use. So I can say import font source and now I'm going to do the same for JetBrains mono. And don't forget the semicolons. So here we can say root and now we can change any of these variables. I'm going to change a couple. I'm going to say R, main font, it's going to be Manrope, and then we're going to have the heading font, going to be the same. Now I also want to change the code block, so we can say code font, this is going to be JetPort,

 brains, mono. And don't make the same mistake I did. Awesome. I'm also going to change the link color to aqua and the link color hover. So if you go to the presentation, you can see now our font changed and we don't have a lot of slides. Let me just go back here. I'm going to remove the notes. I'm going to say slide one, slide two. So now you can see here we changed the color of this progress, which you can also change. So if we go to the slides file, let me just go to the slides, you can say false for both the controls and progress if you don't want to show it. so it's going to disappear but of course the slide still works you can press escape to get the high level overview if you need to but yeah I'm just going to revert this to true let me just comment it out alright so that's it for the styling and of course you can also overwrite some of the classes here for the syntax highlighting so for example you can go here and say hljs title and something like hljs keyword and if you really don like the bold font it uses by default you can say font weight normal You can change other things like removing the box shadow from the code tag you can say reveal pre and reveal code. You can also hide the overflow, you can say hidden, and then you can say, you have to say important I think, and then you can also remove the box shadow and the background for hljs, say background none. Alright, so let's go here to our presentation and we're going to add a code block, add code, and let's even include lines. Alright, so now if I refresh this, slide 1, slide 2, as you can see this already looks a lot better, it doesn't have that ugly box shadow and the background. And of course you can just go here and find what these tokens are in the theme like I showed you, and you can change it for yourself. Alright, so that's it. If you like what you've seen, don't forget to like and subscribe, and you can support me by becoming a Patreon, and you can also join the Discord. Thank you for watching and catch you in the next one. Peace! Thank you.