 Yo friends, what's up? Do you need a quick way to set up things like Tailwind, internationalization, authentication, and so on? Then the Svelte CLI is for you. In this video, I'm going to show you how you can use the Svelte CLI to create a Svelte project and add all of these integrations that I mentioned. Alright, but before we get started, here's a message from our sponsor. I'd like to thank this video's sponsor, you, the viewer. You can support the channel through Patreon or a YouTube channel membership. Members get early access to videos, help shape the content, and a special Discord role. You can find all of the links in the description. Thank you for your support. Alright friends, here is a short and sweet blog post introducing the new Svelte CLI. Basically, the Svelte team released a new CLI for creating, enhancing, and upgrading Svelte projects named SV. In the past, you would do something like npm create Svelte to create a new Svelte project. Now you say npx sv create and that's it. And it also has some cool features that that we're going to talk about. Alright, if you want to read more, I'm going to leave all of the links in the description. But basically, we can go to the docs. So here we have docs, you have Svelte, SvelteKit, and the CLI docs. So you have everything under one umbrella. And you can see it's very simple if you look at the usage. So you can just say npx sv, we can pass a command and the arguments. And here are the commands you can give it. So for example, you can use sv create to create a new project. You can even pass the flags like the template if you want TypeScript or JS doc. No types, no add-ons, and no install if you want to skip the dependency installation, which you're going to look at in a second. And then if you want to add another integration later, you can use svadd, and then you can pick from one of the official integrations. And I think later they're even going to include community integrations. The community members are going to be able to create their own templates, which can be just easily added. And then we have other commands like svcheck, so you can find errors and warnings in your project, such as unused CSS, accessibility hints, JavaScript, and TypeScript compilation errors. And here is another useful one for migration, SVMigrate, and you have a bunch of options here if you want to migrate to SvelteKit 2, SvelteKit 4 migration script, and Svelte 5 migration script. And all of these options have a great migration guide that you can read if you need to do that. And the last thing I want to point is the GitHub repo for the Svelte CLI. So if you have any issues, want to contribute to it, I'm going to post all the links in the description. Alright, so with that out of the way, let's look at the new Svelte CLI. Alright, here I am inside VS Code. let's say for example that you want to scaffold a new SvelteKit project, well first you can say npx or you can use the package manager of your choice and to see all of the options you can just say sv. Alright, so we can see the commands we have create, add, migrate, check and help. You don't even have to use the docs since you have the power of the terminal at your fingertips. For example, maybe you're interested what you can do with create, well you can just say npx, sv, create and then you can use dash dash help. And this should give you all of the options. And now from here you can see that it's going to ask you about the path, and then you have some other extra options like supplying the template, if you want types or not, add-ons, and if you want to skip installing dependencies. So if you automating this using some script or whatever you doing right you can just pass these flags to the setup But I just going to press Ctrl L so I clear everything and then I going to say npx sv create Alright so now it going to ask you where you want this to be created and I'm just going to press enter since I'm already inside of an empty folder. Now it asks you about which template you want. Of course, in most situations, you're going to want the minimal template unless you want to explore what Svelte and SvelteKit can do, right? And this is another awesome option if you're working on a library. And even though this says Svelte library, this is really awesome for working on any JavaScript library, because now the lib folder becomes the entry point of your app, and you can use routes for documentation or for testing out your library. But in my case, I'm just going to pick the minimal example. And here you can pick between using Tyescript or JavaScript.js.comments, whichever you prefer. Of course, I'm going to pick Tyescript. And now we can pick between one of these options. Alright, so the options that we have here is Prettier, ESLint, VTest, Playwright, Tailwind CSS, Drizzle, Lucia, MDswex, Paraglide, and Storybook. I'm not going to assume that you know these things, so let's actually look at what these integrations are. So basically Prettier is just a thing for formatting your code, that's basically the simplest explanation. Then you have ESLint, this can check your code for potential problems. And then for testing you have things like VTest, so you can do unit tests to test some specific logic if you need something more complicated. For example, you want to test a checkout progress, you need a browser to do that, then you can use Playwright. So this is often referred to end-to-end testing. Then of course, everyone should know what Tailwind CSS is, right? Basically, if you want Tailwind, which is really popular, that's why it's included. Alright, so if you're looking into an ORM or a database, so it's easier to work with it, you can use something like Drizzle. And if you need auth, there's Lucia. And of course, there's some recent discussions about Lucia no longer being a library, and that's fine because the auth in SvelteKit on Lucia is based on their guidelines. So basically, Lucia is moving from being a library to just a guideline on how to implement auth. And of course, if you need markdown in Svelte, like you have MDX in React, for example, you can use MD-SWACS, which is really great. Alright, so here is another awesome one. Maybe you need internationalization. For this, you can use Paraglide. And if you want to test your components using an ICUI, you can use Storybook. So this is used for component testing. Most people should know what this is already. So this is something that you need, then you can use this. But yeah, basically, those are all of the integrations that we have. Alright, so in this case, I'm actually going to go with Prettier, ESLint, let's ignore testing, maybe I want Tailwind CSS, Drizzle for the database, and Lucia for authentication. Alright, now that I'm done, I can press enter, and then I'm going to get prompted with more questions. So for example, since I picked Tailwind CSS, now it asks me, hey, do you want some plugins for Tailwind? Sure, the typography plugin is really nice, let's pick the plugin for forms, and that's basically it, now I can press enter. Alright, so for Drizzle, it asks me which database would I like to use. I'm a fan of SQLite. Alright, so we can pick squeal, and then we can pick which squeal client we want. And I really don't care, I'm just going to pick libSQL. Alright, and since we picked Lucia, it's asking us if we want a demo. And I'm going to say yes, and this is really great, for example, maybe you can learn how to integrate off using cookies with something like Lucia right This is going to give you a really nice window into that So let just say yes And now it going to ask you which package manager do you want to install dependencies with You can say none, or you can use the package manager of your choice. In my case, I prefer PNPM. So let's do that. And now this should take a minute, and that's going to be it. All right, so now that this is done, it even shows you the additional steps that you can take. So for Drizzle, you will need to set a database URL in your production environment, and it's fine, you'll have to do this. and it also tells you to run pnpm run db push to update your database schema and we also have to do this for lucia all right so let's actually do that and i can just say pnpm we don't have to say run with pnpm so i can just say db push and this is going to create a database and the schema okay this is going to ask you if you want to run these statements let's just say yes and this is already created the database as we can see here in the sidebar and now it's going to do all of its magic right and now it should be done okay so now that i cleared everything let me show you something cool let me just open a new terminal. I'm going to say pnpm dev, so this is going to run the development server. And now we can also run the drizzle studio. So this is like Prisma Studio. It's really awesome, a nice GUI which you can use to look at your database. Alright, so now I can say pnpm db studio. And of course, you should not make a typo. I'll just say npm studio. Alright, so now this runs at local.drizzle.studio. And if you're wondering where am I pulling these things out of my hat right you can just go to package and now you can see all of this is here right so you have db push db migrate db studio and so on so it's not like i made it up right and let's actually see if this works all right so let me actually close these tabs and we can go to localhost 5173 so this is our development server and sorry for the flashbang this is just default tailwind out of the box but for example if i just enlarge this and let's go to demo lucia now we can see here we have just a simple login of course we have no style since we're using tailwind so everything is reset and what was the url again let's actually open it up so it's local.drizzle.studio let's open that and since i'm in brave i have to disable the shield so this works now you can see this is a nice gui for your database all right so you can actually look a bit how this works right so it's careful that all of these things which you can explore on your own right here we have source this is where everything was created inside lib we have this server folder so these files can only be imported on the server which is a nice swell kit feature so here we have the database so this is the drizzle setup you have the schema here or drizzle so you can look at this if you're interested in here you have the off setup so this is using lucia for off well most of these helper functions from these libraries around and it's using cookies for the sessions right you You can even go into hooks.server.ts if you want to learn more how this is handled. I even have an entire video on how to implement off using cookies from scratch if you want to watch that. But yeah, basically that's it, right? They're not exploiting anything from here. Here we can see these routes where we have this demo, right? Here is the Lucia demo This is just a login folder nothing special We can actually just look at what is inside Here generating the user ID sessions and so on You can actually explore this if you want and it should have probably some actions inside of here. Okay, we can even see there are some functions for validating the password. It has to be a string, it has to be a certain length, and et cetera, so keep that in mind. But yeah, let me actually see if I go to the top. Yeah, these are the actions, right? Yeah, actions. There's protein actions for form actions. if you know about that and SvelteKit, right? Basically, this is just the form then, so this action goes to login. Easy peasy, lemon squeezy. And let's see, what is this? This is also the load. Yeah, cool. All of these things are really nicely included for you here. Here you can even sign out when you log in, and that's basically it. Let's see, this is the demo page for Lucia. Here you have this layout. Here you're just importing some global styles, and that's basically it. and this is our homepage. Alright, so we can actually try it out and we can go here. Let's just say test and I'm going to give it a super secret long password. Let's see if we can register our user. Awesome. It gives us our user ID and we can sign out. And now we can look in Drizzle Studio. If we refresh, okay, it should be updated. Awesome. So now we have the ID, user ID, and etc. And this is really lovely. So now we can sign out if we want. that's basically it so let's see if we can log back in let's log in boom everything works so this is how easy and simple it is to get started with the Svelte CLI all right let's say that we want to add another integration like MD2X for markdown well first let me close all of these things and you can even say pointy boy collapse just so everything is neat and tidy we can open our terminal back here. And now we can just press Ctrl-C to kill everything. And now instead of saying npx sv create, we can use npx sv add. So to add mdswax, for example, all we have to do is say npx sv add mdswax. That's basically it. Let's say enter. And we can say yes to using pnpm. All right, with that out of the way, let's start the development server back again. All right, so let's look at the swell config file. So here we can see it's imported mdswax. and here it added this .svx extension. Alright, so now markdown files or .svx files are going to be treated as svelte components. But of course, you can use any extension that you want. So for example, we can actually go to source, routes, let's create a new file, markdown page.svx. Now we're going to see it even has this special icon and now we can say hello or something. Alright, so now we can go back here to our page, and instead of going to demo, we can just go to the markdown route. And we're going to see, we have hello here, we can even inspect it, we can see the markdown has been turned to HTML. Alright, and that's basically it. So this is the new Svelte CLI. If you like what you've seen, don't forget to like and subscribe, and I'll catch you in the next one. Peace!