 Hello, hello! What a nice trip on the board! Hello! Hello! Does everyone hear me? Because maybe you're the one who needs to be in the club. So the next step is to trigger a like on this picture. Okay, so I'm the like button. And my job now is to notify user France when suddenly a new message comes in. Ding! Funny one. I can't speak. Why not? I think we are more or less ready. Yes. Welcome everyone to Svelte Meath of Mambostaran. Hello, hello! Hi! Hello! Welcome everybody! Nice! Take a spin! Join us! So just for your information, it's about an hour tour and then after we propose to do a drink in a bar or something we book something, so you just need to follow the crowd, okay? So maybe the first question is what is ZELT ZELT is a component library so sorry So we have our component here, okay? What is composed of a component? Do someone know? What is inside the component? How it starts to be interactive so you can speak? Yeah, you have some HTML, yeah, maybe? Ah, HTML, okay. Okay, let's go and put it on the component. So let's put the HTML in the middle of the component, right? Okay, what else after HTML? Step somewhere else. Ah, we have a script tag, okay, very good. We need help. Let's put a bit of style. Okay, so now you know what is a component, right? Actually the script, you can have two flavors of scripts. Who knows what kind of flavor you can have in scripts? JavaScript. JavaScript. Oh, we have JavaScript. Let's bring JavaScript, please. Only JavaScript is available? No. TypeScript. Oh, so who has TypeScript? Me. How about put the TypeScript on the board? It will be fun to hold the auto. OK, so we have our component, I think. So basically, we know what is Veld now, right? And Zveld comes with also Zveldkit. What is Zveldkit? Zveldkit is the meta framework, right? But I think it's enough slides now. Now let's go to live demo. You know how it's working, live demo? So live demo, I will do NPM, create, and now you need to help me to find the name of an application we will build during the session. So we are the BIM, okay? It could be an ID. We will take a picture, actually, something like Instagram. We have some idea of name we can... Viennagram. Viennagram, very good idea! Wow, we have our application! Very cool! Okay so now that we have our application here I come Maybe I need help OK So when we start creating an application maybe I will not stick them because it will take too much time. When we start to have an application, we directly start with a package of changes. Everyone knows this. So it's here that you put where your dependencies is. So always stick it here. Maybe you have some helpers on the side. So package.json And then most probably you know that Svelte is powered with beat. So you will have also a beat config And then you will put some plugins, some settings and everything there. Very good Oh, we start to get organized And then you have another file called Svelte config. So here you will put for example aliases or something like this and you will see later Okay What else do we have? We have app.html. And this is the entry point of your application. All this comes with just an npm create, the name of your application. npm create, and the name of your application. And then we have a lib folder with an alias, $lib. And in there we can have components. I think in the tram we have two components. components, one is a heart, one is a camera, a heart, okay, we will see later, camera, very good, and then we have a special folder called src slash route, okay, now it will be more complex, so we have route and then we will put components, we have the heart and the camera, but we'll have also some specific component called plus page plus belt that we do a route, right? So, here is our route. It's okay, you all remember, right? It's time for troubleshooting. We need 10 feet. Okay. Okay. Supposed to stick, but let's see. Let's see how long it falls. We will put this down it okay So we have our component The stack is a bit down but Let try to do it right Once again We hope you have fun. So we have our component. And then we should probably put this on the plus page.self. someone probably has a yeah so we have our plus page.12 we will not seek it right now I will have time after when you work so the plus page.12, very good and if you want to share some layout on your Z page you have a plus layout.12 oh yeah we have it coming here a lot of applause for layout yeah there is a you can remove the sticker this one we're a bit prepared let's see I can remove the sticker as well I think are these the stickers? I think yeah maybe not those ones have stickers? yeah I think these are the stickers okay okay so two more very good I can brace two seconds actually it's really hot here or it's only me maybe only me okay Can you ask if we can open the window? We have a good group working here. They didn't know that sitting here is the working part. OK. So the component goes to the page, OK, and the page goes to the route holder. OK, very good. And there is a concept now on the load function of the pluspage.cs. Ah, we have it here. Very good. So in this file, you will get the load function to load the data into the page. And actually, we have also the name of it. And then we have another file called pluspage.server.cs. Maybe. Pluspage.server.cs. Yes. Yes. Yay! And this one will go only for the server. And for example, you will connect to API or a database. Someone has a database, maybe? I'll send that to the mail. Oh, not getting it. Oh. Oh, where is it?

 Sorry, sorry, it's my kid and myself, we created it, but this is the database. And it's going at the bottom. Boom. We don't care about database, he always speaks about that. So here was just to explain to you the different files, okay? So mission one is completed. I hope you understood a bit. Mission two is to understand the flow. And for the club we prepare three clothes. And the first floor, I think Hermine will keep this out. Just to give one or two rules before, on your sheet of paper you have a loge and you will have some action. You will see you will be guided, no problem. And then someone will wear the hat. And the hat is the one speaking. And the first one speaking is Hermine. So I want to start the first floor. I hope I don't fall. Do you want me to take the camera? So the floor is... Does everyone hear me? Because maybe you're the one who needs to be in the floor. So I want to be able to like the photos of this tram. So in order to do that, first I need slash routes slash picture minus detail ID plus page dot svelte to start this action. Who is it? Share it. Yeah. I don't know. Okay. Be careful. Who are you? Hello. Well, I'm route, route, slash picture detail, slash ID, picture. Yes. I'm making actions, for example, when a picture is liked. Okay, when a picture, so my actions, when a picture is liked, I save it into the database, and then I update the states on the button. Now it's seven likes. So, the first action is A? The first action A is update the database. Who is the database? Well, I have a few. You're the database. You hand the hat And the microphone Alright I have a database It's all good. It's all good? Okay. So the next step is to return number 7 of people like me in picture to plus page.server.typescript. The page is the last page from server.typescript. Here. Okay. Here. It's yours. You will come later. Don't worry. Don't worry. We'll get it. I have a compiler in my head. Yes, now I'm updated about the data. Ah, yeah. So the database when the database is in the database. I have a compiler in my head. I have a compiler in my head. Yes, now I'm updated about the data. of the oh yeah so the database went to here with the seven lights seven lights yes where do you go after action b on your card no uh actually please inform us page.12 about the state of the like button so who is plus page.12 of the page called uh picture detail right oh picture detail is here it's here that we missed at the beginning and the beginning I am with the, this is the stealth page where the user views the picture. And then next test is to find like button component to trigger a like on this picture. You have the like component over there. Ah, that's a good way. Okay, so I'm the like button And I display a heart icon that can be clicked or toggled. And I emit an event when I'm clicked. And my steps are like, I have a property with liked, true, and false. And I send a like request to the server. Who's the server? So we had a bit of a mix-up, I think, at the beginning of the session. So let's say that you are already going back to have the seven likes. So you're already on the same. Okay, so I'm just displaying the likes. and I'm going to show user Ehrman that the picture is now liked and has seven legs. Show me. Show me Here seven likes Perfect! So this was the Floor 1 and... You need the mic. I will go again. Yeah, you go. So this was the Floor 1 and now you start to see how it goes, okay? So please now we will do the Floor 2 and we should actually give the name of the Floor 2. of the flow tool, maybe we didn't do the flow tool. What was the flow tool? I don't remember now. And you will start it over there. So the flow tool will be, we want to capture a picture of the Rathaus. I think we did the very good timing and the Rathaus is just really close to here. Not exactly, but three times please say yes. Very close. Anyway, everything is very close in Vienna. So we can start. So, I want to, no, no, you sir, please. Yeah, you have to start. It's your job. Okay, it's my job. So I can take the canal. So, since we want to capture the pod of Rathaus, basically I would need route capture plus page dot svelte to start the action. Just a little bit of a... Just a little bit of a... Hehehehe I'm a... ...class picture as well in the... ...the world's captured world This is a place where people can take pictures of beautiful house houses and I need a camera that's not... Who? Camera that's not... And camera.svelte. Hey! That's gonna be good. Picking the bike up. Hi, I am libcamera.svelte. This component allows the user to use the device camera to capture the picture. Look through the hole and take the picture. You have to find the hot house. Find the hot house. There is a helper. You have to get up. You have to get up. Get up? Take it. The picture was captured. I think it was blurry. You have to go closer. Here Very nice picture Picture was captured Hey! A look through the hole, take the picture. Pass it to the roundcapture.com. There. You got a pass. Good job. Thank you. Good job. Thank you. A big job, dude. Here you are. I'm the network. . . . . . . . . All right. I am the route capture plus page . And I'm handling the service . . . . . . . . . . the public URL to the route capture plus page built after an endover development. Cool. So, repeat again. You're looking for capture plus page.com. Yep. Yay. Thank you. Thank you. So I gratefully received the picture. and I'm forwarding the public URL from the server to libphoto.svelte, which will display it. Who is photo.svelte? Here we go. With a picture. Alright, I'm lib.photo.swelt and I display a photo in a Viennagram feed based on the public URL. And I need to show the user Ehrman the new picture in the feed and hand the photo. Here you go. Thank you! I see the picture. We captured the Rathaus. Good job! Thank you everyone! So, do you want to... Do we have any questions? So, there is one more thing. So everyone who is... Okay. Maybe I'm loud enough, maybe not. So everyone who was a part of both of these loans have a little note before you know.

 so we will we will get back to them a bit later but are you maybe ready for the third flow that's the most complicated one and it will involve mostly people who haven't been in the flows yet yes okay let me start the flow training the name of the flow So, we share a meme. We are sharing, so the flow is called to share a meme. And some of you already know it because we have some of the cards. So, the thing is, in this case, I don't want a meme to be shared with me, but I have a meme that I want to share with my friend Franz. And so in order to start this, I need someone who is called slash route slash meme detail slash ID slash blog page dot bell. Wait, let's go. Look on the right side. We have a picture of the other one. Yes. Enjoy. Exactly. Thank you so much. We have to clean. We just have to cash in. That's a good software. Hold it on the enneagram. Okay, so let's go back to the floor. I think you had a... Thank you so much. You had a hat. You had a hat. Sorry, I was supposed to wear a hat. That's why. You don't understand. Without the hat, a microphone is not working. Make sure that the microphone is really close to the mouse so that everyone understands. Yeah, so I am route.mean.details.id routeparameter.pluspage.swell. I am the swell page where the user can view the meme. And now I need to find the share button swell to share this meme. So who is the share button? I'm the share button. Hello, share button. Hey. So let's share. So I have the share button swapped. The component displays a paper plane icon that emits share event when clicked And yeah sends a share request to the MemeDetails server Who is MemeDetails server? PlusPageServerTS. That's you. That's all I've got. I'm a route, team detail, ID, plus page server CS. Despite hand, server access, a picture is shared with a friend for example. Next step is forward data to message queue. Who is message queue? I'm the message queue and I make sure that messages are stored and users are notified. So, and my job now is to notify user France that he has a new message. I'm user France! If user phones are not a French user. Yes, I'm just a dude running his own business doom-scrolling the Enneagram when suddenly a new message comes in. Ding! I'm attempting... I attempt to open messages plus page.swelt but there is a client set error. I inform Sentry of an uncaught type error cannot read properly length of null. You should use TypeScript. I should have used TypeScript. So what I do now is I do a full page reload calling messages plus page.server. Don't fail. There is a complete invasion. It's also the Sensei guy. Sensei is doing everything nowadays. Apparently. All right so I have the messages session id plus page server TS I can be I have a file that like loaded on the server side And I share, for example, the contents of a shared message. So what I'm doing is I would like to hand over the message data to a past page on Svelte for messages. So what's the name of the file? I guess it should be... Plus page dot svelte. Yeah, exactly. Yeah, that's him. No, that's him. I think it's me. You have to pick it up. Or you can handle it. Maybe it should be this way. No, no, no. No, no, no. Nice, yeah. Film. Service and rendering for the message. So I'm routes, messages, ID, plus page.swelt, and I'm using the server-side rendering context here. And the next step is to display the coded meme to France. Yep. And the pants. I'm still France. and I received the meme that Hermin sent me and it's a funny one so that would be oh where's the microphone so that would be our three blows so we hope you learn a little bit and since we have still a little bit of time we could or like did you check your the more you know art is there something new that someone learned about Svelte sure you wanna read yours mine yours is very funny I think nobody knows I think my one nobody knows so the paper paper plane icon. It's an icon that's supposed to be... Oh, sorry for the reputation. The icon is supposed to be a paper airplane which is commonly used as a share icon Show us the icon Oh yeah This is the icon Oh No Okay maybe someone who has a Svelte related I have one. Yeah? All right, so it's pretty. This one was there because I didn't know. I think it can be true for some other JavaScript-based stuff, but Svelte can utilize any available message queue service. So let's pretend that I'm a CQ service and I'm written in Java and you can leverage my services. Nice. Someone else wants to share something of his card? Let me do this. Actually, we all have something interesting to share. Sorry, I didn't. Thank you. I'm going to talk about an interesting paradigm of sales and sales kit, which is basically there is this pattern that whenever you have a .server to a file name. So for example, .page.server, .obs.server, or, and that's the interesting part, your own module, .server.set, it makes sure that this file is only available on the server, meaning you can also use server API. So you don't have to worry that there will be one user browser. A pretty neat pattern, I would say. So server actions are a great pattern when used with forms in the frontend and you can use them for progressive enhancement and with JavaScript disabled. So by default, pages are retro-closed on the server for the initial request and in the browser for subsequent navigation. Okay, so root parameters such as ID can be used to load data dynamically. You can also validate parameters in a parameter. I have a little insider here. The reason that I was Franz today is I had a beard like Franz Ferdinand. So it's a reoccurring picture and persona that I take into self-meetups.

 So I did no mind. So the upload button component utilizes native HTML input type capture element to allow users to trigger camera on their device and upload the resulting file. There's someone who didn't read theirs and would like to. One is the plus page.server.js can export the load functions with data from the server or additional actions to write data to the server using the verifying. We're going here. Yeah. So, effectively, you should take it out. So mine, the first part I knew, so it provides a dollar lib elias with the call to access the source lib folder but you can also define custom Elias like assets dollar helpers etc Cool, so I'll take my microphone now, so just get ready, because I think we are going out on this spot. and then we will all, we can just gather in front and then we will all move to, like the meeting is done but like we will all go to the pub maybe to talk a little to get to know what each other is doing and to hang out with it thank you for being in front with us thank you thank you of course keep your cup with you It's a little memory of what we were. Yes, it's... We're not defined only by this car. We will see. Thank you for organizing this. It's very unique. Pretty cool Yeah Good job Good job Good job Good job Woo We should not touch it Okay we going out Okay, we're going out here. So just take everything you see. I left it where you are at the same spot. It's open. It's open. Yeah. Thank you. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. There a high three days like okay like the chop job is only in The job is only in French or German and it like it not for me I guess So, I wanted to make one issue on your open thought, and then, okay, what do you think? I couldn't find one. but the meeting point was really great for us because we came from 4, I can't so like the... ...the front and... ...stuffed rice balls, perfect with breadcrumbs and breadcrumbs. ...and a sort of fried rice. ...a stable of the speculation. ...what is the name of the stuffed rice balls, well, breadcrumbs and breadcrumbs. ...and breadcrumbs and breadcrumbs. ...I guess the height, I know it's not good enough, I know it's not good enough. ...it's amazing. I think that we have a bit similar view. I think that's pretty good. I don't think so. I think you have to at least...