 Hey friends and welcome. Today we're going back to the future and I'm going to show you how you can use future CSS in Swell today. With so many great CSS features like container queries coming to browsers, the excitement around CSS has never been greater. So here are some of the CSS features I'm excited about. So we're going to get nesting in CSS, we're going to get cascade layers, custom media queries, media query rangers, the has, and in-sudo classes among other things, and trigonometric functions. But I'm more excited about people who do crazy CSS animations, what are they going to come up with. So that's going to be awesome. But let's look at some of those features, right? So you can see now we have nesting. So if you only use SAS until now for nesting, you can drop it and use regular CSS, right? So this is really awesome. And then we have cascade layer. So basically this is like Photoshop layers. So this is going to override default styles. You don't have to use imported anymore, et cetera. Basically you can skip the cascade, right? Which is crazy. And let's look at custom media queries. So this was a pain point also before you couldn't, use CSS variables inside your media queries to specify some width etc but you can also do that using environment variables which you can look at here but here you can specify a custom media query like this and then you can use it wherever you please so this is really awesome and now media query ranges are really awesome because you can use normal logic like in programming to specify media query ranges before it was really like awkward but let's look at another one that has relational pseudo class so now you can select the parent if an intag has image then you can change the styles based on that and this is really awesome and then the trigonometric functions which you might not care about but yeah it really cool how a lot of these features are coming to CSS Some of these features might be already supported by some browser but what if you wanted to use those features today? In that case, you can use PostCSS that describes itself as a tool for transforming CSS with JavaScript. And if you look at PostCSS, it's basically the equivalent to Babel for JavaScript, but for CSS. So you can use future CSS features today, which is really awesome if you look at the site. But yeah, if we go here, the best part about this approach is when these features are supported in every browser, you can just remove post CSS or keep it for future CSS if you want. And you don't have to just use Sass for nested styles, right? And to make all this possible, we're going to use a post CSS plugin, post CSS preset env. So we can install this plugin and then we can start using future CSS today. So you can see this is the example of that and it shows you how to install the plugin. So let me just close this and I can close this page. So the only thing you have to do, you already know how to do this. You can just copy this over. You can install the post CSS preset in vCSS. And then for Svelte we need post CSS load config so we can load the post CSS config, right? This works regardless if you're using Vite or SvelteKit to initialize your SvelteKit as long as you have the Swell preprocess plugin, which really has all of these things built in, SAS, last stylus, CoffeeScript, TypeScript, Bug and much more. And this is what you get by default in your Swell Key project. So if I go to a skeleton Swell Key project here, and if I go to the config, you can see here it is preprocess Swell preprocess and this enables everything you going to need And we going to see in a second how we going to enable PostCSS And it couldn be simpler So let me just close this And now if you install these packages, and optionally you can install types, right? So you're going to create a PostCSS config file, which is right here. And we're using .cjs because we're using ES modules, and this is not supported with PostCSS. So you have to say, hey, this is just a regular JavaScript file. So you can copy over this config if you want. And now you can import the plugin using this older syntax. And then you can use the plugin here. And now we can specify what stage of the features you want, which is stage 3. This is from the documentation. Let me just find it here. From the PostCSS plugins. And if you look at this, here is everything you need to know. And all the information I'm showing you here is right inside here. and then when you say stage 3 you can look at the features and since you're using TypeScript you have awesome auto completion so you can press ctrl space bar and then you can look at all of them some of them might require additional configuration right but yeah you can read more about it but I'm going to enable nesting rules custom media queries and media query ranges and let me just close this and I also want to mention for the svelte pre-processing this is all documented here so you don't think that I have some secret insider knowledge or whatever if you go to pre-processing here let's see post css auto pre-processing mode you can set post css to true which is inside the swell config so here you have pre and you can set it here to true and then it says if you have this plugin which we already installed is going to look for a post css config in your project and is going to load it so that how that works if you curious as i said in the post you do that and here is the last step which i already showed you you set pre-process to true and that's basically it and you can find examples of course on github or you can open it on stack blitz and play around with it if you want but yeah let's go to the demo and I'm going to close all of this and I just have a simple route here page and you can ignore this part this is just some setup for the body so here is the nesting I was talking about so you can basically ignore this part right this is what is important so we have h1 and then we can nest a hover and then it's going to rotate if we hover over it so you can use future css today which is rad but yeah this is just a basic example and then let's look at some media queries so if I open the developer tools let me just bump the size up so you can see what's going on let me just do that and yeah we can see for example i have it custom media query narrow so if it goes to 400 or below is going to turn tomato so if i scale this up it's going to use the aquamarine color as before but if i go to 400 or below it's going to use the tomato And now we can also see the custom ranges. So here it's much easier. We can say width is less than 200 pixels. Then it's going to use pale green. And that works as expected. So yeah, I hope you really enjoyed this and hope you take advantage of future CSS today. And as I already said, all the links are in the post. And if you find any mistake, you can edit it on GitHub. So thank you for watching and catch you in the next one.