 Hey friends, it's your boy with another wall of text. Welcome! So in this one we're going to be learning about Svelte Headless UI and by the end of the video you're going to learn what a Headless UI component library exactly is and how we can go from a normal regular HTML select element to something more custom we have control over. So you might be used to a component library like Material UI or any other which is great if you enjoy it but you find yourself fighting against its opinions all the time. So Headless UI component library on the other hand doesn't have opinions, meaning it's completely unstyled giving you complete control not only over styles but how you compose components by only exposing the logic to you like lego pieces. So Swell Headless UI is inspired by Headless UI for Tailwind and it's a complete port unofficial one. So we can go here and you can see this is the Tailwind one from the Headless UI but don't worry you don't have to use Tailwind, it's completely optional and I don't use Tailwind in this project. can see here is the official page so these are high quality unstyled svelte components which are completely unstyled they're fully accessible extensively tested fully typed with tiescript and compatible with svelte kit which we're using right so let me just close out of this so svelte headless ui exposes nine components including dialogue disclosure list box menu pop over radio group switch tabs and transition this might be enough or not enough depending on the size of your project or team because you might reach for something like material ui right because it has more opinions but let me show you how awesome Svelte Headless UI is and shout out to Ryan for working on this project here he is so let me just close this and then we can go back so a major benefit of using any component library is that it takes care of accessibility for you and Svelte Headless UI is no exception and it's also fully typed with Tyscript and compatible with Svelte Kit as said in the documentation right and if you work with React you might have heard about Reach UI which is also awesome and if you still work with React I highly encourage you to look at that so The next statement I'm going to make might sound completely ridiculous to you but I'm completely serious. HTML is hard. You're laughing. You're like, what are you talking about? How is HTML hard? Are you insane? Let me explain. Have you ever tried to style a HTML select element? What you quickly realize is that you have to make your own custom element. So that's not a problem, right? That's just simple HTML, CSS and maybe some JavaScript. Wrong. HTML has the highest hidden complexity. Well, not the highest, but it's a high hidden complexity of accessibility. To implement a custom HTML select element that is also accessible, you have to follow the Y-Aria standard guidelines. So the Y-Aria Accessible Rich Internet Application Suite defines a way to make web content and web applications more accessible to people with disabilities. So for example, let's say you want to make one from scratch. you can but you don't want to spend hours or maybe days reading the y area so let's look at how it looks like so you would have to go here and you would have to study this document and this is the rules uh what would make it accessible right and then you have to implement this yourself and they give you a solution here but you really have to grog for this and understand it right and this is the hidden complexity of html that most people don't really realize they're like okay i learned html css moving on to javascript wrong the web is so broken and inaccessible because we have this kind of approach to it right and i wish more people would pay attention to accessibility so yeah so let's close this and let's look at the boring select menu so in this post i'm showing the select menu we have here and if i go here i'm just inside the swell kit project so no problem so we can go to the select and we can see i just have some shows here nothing special right so So selected and swell, this is how we loop over this value. This is a select, right? And we just have some basic styles like inheriting the font size, font family, and some padding. But beyond this, it's really difficult to style the select element. We can give it some colors background, but really can add curved borders around these options We can really space them out how we want et cetera compared to this right Like this is completely impossible So this is what we going to do by the end of this So let me show you how simple it is to make a custom select menu using the ListBox component in transition with Svelte transitions. So I can close this and inside of here, let me go to ListBox and I'm going to delete everything just so we can start from scratch, right okay this is amazing so if you haven't already you can install svelte headless ui by doing npm i development dependency and you can install it like this from the post or from the documentation right so let's refer to the documentation for listbox where you can also play around with examples so if we go here to the documentation we can see all of the elements here and here is the custom select menu yes so we can see the basic example here let me just zoom in and if we look at this example we can see how it works so we're going to import these components right here is some data here it shows you how to loop over it and then it goes in detail about styling active and selected items which you're going to do also a custom label if you want showing hide in the list box we're also going to add transitions using svelte which is going to be awesome but yeah you can read the documentation more if you want so as i it's like playing with LEGO and this is what I mean by how it's composable because these are like LEGO blocks you can arrange anyhow you want and not being restricted by its opinions so in this project I'm using Svelkit as I said and I created a list box component but it's not important so to start we're going to add the imports the HTML markup with some classes we can use for styling so let me just open this code example and we can start here I'm also using TypeScript but of course always it's optional so to make it easier let me just copy the imports here and you can also copy it from the documentation right and also this data because this is not really important alongside with the select yeah cool so we can save it and now we can just use it right so here is the list box and we can just say h4 list box so now let's use our components right so we can say list box going to create a div and then let's use the first one we're going to say list box and then let's just make some space so here's how we're going to store the value we're going to say value selected then we're going to say on change which is a special event take selected and we can get the selected one from the van detail which is a custom event right yeah and we're already starting to compose our custom select menu so we can say list box button which will already be imported right we can say class button we can pass class along to components and we can do this and then let's add a span we're going to say selected name because that's in our data right so this is going to be the selected and it's going to say name yeah so we added the button and then let's add the options we can say list box options make sure it's plural yeah so we can say let me see why doesn't you want to complete okay something's stubborn right let's pay attention it's plural options because it's an easy mistake you can make right and then we can loop over the data like normal we can say each shows as anime say anime id and then we can close the each loop and let's see inside of it this is where you can use this box option right one option and then we can just give it a span we can say anime oops not the anime is effect not sure where you got that editor are you drunk yes so we can go to this box options we can say class option value is going to be anime but we're passing in right so this is here value and then we're also going to say is disabled if the anime we want to select is completed yeah and then we can oh look at this this was also So thank you. How very helpful you are, editor. And then we can save it. And let's see what we get here. And let's see what we get here. So it looks like nothing special, but there is a lot of work done in the background for us. For example, if you click on the list, we can see. So if we inspect the element, we can see on the left. Here's a lot of work being done for us. So this is really a button. This is a list item. You can see all the area things following the accessibility guidelines, right? this would be a complete nightmare to do by yourself maybe not a nightmare but tedious right so our job is to style this and that's really it and this is the part i love because i enjoy writing css but if you don't that's understandable right yeah so i guess i can leave this open for now because you can see it works as expected so we can go back to the post and as i said the list box component takes a selected value and uses on change to change the selected item using a custom event from event details which you can move to a function instead so you can kind of handle change or something whatever you want right so the rest of the code should be self-explanatory because it's just opponent you can arrange however you want and i already mentioned how we can pass the class prop to them which we can use to style it in a bit and we went over the output and another interesting thing is that i went here i literally inspect element and i was like yoink my svg now and it's somewhere inside of here right yeah it's somewhere inside here it is the svg and i literally just copied that over so we can add this and then we're also going to add the let directive that's going to let us know when the item is active or selected so if we open the code here inside list box we can just copy over the SVG it's in our button it's right here we can copy it over if you scroll down here here is where you can use the directive so we can go to the list box option singular right after the sale we can say let active let selected and then we can style it by saying class active apply if it's active right and apply the class selected and you can save it but nothing is going to happen because you haven't added styles but this is just regular html at the end of the day so let's just style it yeah so let me open listbox swellt and i think i'm just going to copy it over because it's not a lot to type but yeah we'll just save on time right let me know if you prefer me writing out the styles if you're unsure but obviously i'm going to go over them right so let's take a brief look so here we have a list box and let me just remove this so here is the list box we just say max width 280 pixels position relative because we're going to position absolutely the options so we can let me show you here if i go here and just close because it's distracting so or it's looking nice right so these are the options and when you're using position absolute and because we set the position relative on the parent is going to anchor it to this and let me find you here this position absolute and then we say top so it moves 44 pixels from the top let me just show you if i remove this you can see how it works and then we just say right left so it takes this entire width because otherwise this will just happen right then we give give it some padding some background color really doesn't matter and here are the arrows which i gave the svg width and height and i said display block and for the button it really important that we inherit the style so we have to inherit the font family font size and also the color so nothing special here and this is the more fun part so let see so here the disabled style so we just target the aria disabled if we go here for example if you remember we set the default not the default styles but the disabled styles by if the anime is completed right so we can see here is the let me see id row just scroll down here it's going to let me but i guess not so let's just anchor this to the bottom and let me just move this so we can see more and then we can see aria disabled true okay so let me close that and then we get the active styles which we already used and we have to use the global here because these styles or elements that is targeting is inside the component which we can target with regular CSS. And this is the more fun part where we can create some pseudo elements we can create before and that's how we can get this pointing emoji finger when we hover over some items. So yeah, so that's really awesome, but I also want you to pay attention to accessibility. So for example, let's look at this first select. So if we press tab on our keyboard, we can navigate to it. And then if we press enter, it's going to open the list and we can navigate with arrow keys right same as using just the keys to go over the values and this is what SwellHeadlessUI also takes care of us so we can target it we can use the arrows to get inside the menu and if you go again here with tab selected you can also press enter and everything works fine so this is currently selected Naruto we can make sure one piece is selected and then then let's go back to cover view. So yeah, that's basically almost it. We just need to add animations, I think. So to add animations, you can use the transition component from Svelte Haze UI if you're using Tailwind CSS. And if you go to the documentation, you can see it here. Let me see. Yeah. So here is the transition. And yeah, this is using Tailwind. Here's a basic example. So use Tailwind classes, but not using Tailwind. I want to use Svelte. So how do we do that? It's really simple we just need to take control over if the list box item is open or not by adding the let open directive and then we can use swell transitions as normal so we need to add the swell transition and the directive so let's just go to the top and here we can say import fade from Svelte transition, right? And then for the list box, just need to find list box. You can say let open and then let's find our list box options plural, right? Don't forget. Yes, so we can go here. We can say if open because now we expose the open variable, right? So we can know if it's open or not. so don't forget to close it you can say if and then let's add a swell transition so we can say div let's just close it so we're going to add it here just see yeah that's right and then we can just add a normal regular swell transition transition fade which we imported and let's add something so it's obvious it's working let's say one second press save and we can go back here and our transition should be working right now and it does and this is really awesome like it's really subtle like this would be really annoying for the user but if you set it to something like 100 milliseconds it like really makes all the difference in the user experience and our component works just fine and everything is beautiful all right so that's it so for the parting words if you're working on a large project with more people this might not work for you if you need more components but i prefer this approach because it's so easy to use your own design system. So thanks for watching and catch you later.