 Yo friends, what's up? Here I am yapping at you in yet another video. If you've been living under a rock and didn't know, Svelte 5 has just been released. And with the release of Svelte 5, there is also a brand new site which combines the Svelte and SvelteKit sites. So no longer you have to go through separate sites for Svelte or SvelteKit, you can find everything that you need on one beautiful site. So here is the docs, the tutorial which you can go through, everything is right here. Of course, here is the REPL that you know and love so you can share code examples with others. and if maybe the serif font on this site isn't your cup of tea there is actually a pull request open that's going to make the site even more accessible there's going to be an option for a serif sun serif font and even a font for people with dyslexia because Svelte deeply cares about accessibility but if you like Svelte right do you like money if the answer is yes to either of those questions there is also a new event that you can participate in which is Svelte Hack 2024 So you can write Svelte and get paid. So this is going to last from October 19th. Today is the 24th when I'm recording until January 10th. So let me actually see how much do you have. So let's see. So basically you have 77 days, right? So two months or something. You have really a lot of time if you want, right? So this is brought by the Open Collective We giving money away right Basically So you have these wonderful prizes 15 prizes you have cash prizes for the first place you have you have and etc It goes down there. Alright, so we have three categories. We have the whizbangery category, so you just make something awesome, right, then you have the rune ritualist category, and this is that you make something awesome with runes, right, maybe some package for NPM, JSR, right, and then you have the migration magician, so if you're migrating an existing Svelte 4 project to swell 5 you can actually win a prize for that and we can actually look at the rules so your project must use swell 5 as its primary dependencies you can even work on a team between one to three members and there can only be one submission per team submissions must have a demonstration video or working demo included in the readme right and submissions also must be new so the project can be started before october 19th and the same for updating projects you can update the project after January 10th. And there is some other thing like the legal age, and you have to use GitHub or GitLab, I guess. So this license is also, I guess, really important. You have to include this license. And of course, you have to adhere to the Svelte community code of conduct. And here is just some information about receiving the prize and how that works, right? And also, who can't enter? Svelte society organizers, of course, Svelte ambassadors. All right, so they had to take me out of the picture because of course they know that I would win every category Ah they sneaky these swell people right And also they family members of above orcs Great Alright and here is some liability things That's really great, you can read this if you want. But actually, let's look at something really cool. So maybe you'll understand these categories a bit better. Of course, there aren't any winners yet, but let's actually see, there were some really amazing projects last year. So let's see if you maybe don't understand what whizbangering means in this category. So actually, the first place last year, someone made actually Wolfenstein game Svelte, right? So Wolf and Svelte. Alright, so let me show you some pro gaming right here. I might have to mute this audio just in case, but let me actually just show you quickly. There we go. Got him! Alright, so let's actually go back to Sveltehack. So yeah, you have some other awesome things like Railmania and etc. And then you had this best library section last year. So this is actually one of the best libraries for recommended forms in Sveltehack Superforms, really awesome. This was all from this competition, right? But of course, don't think that you have to create some amazing things like this, just participate, have fun, and maybe you win something, right? So Superforms is really an awesome library for working with forms in SvelteKit if you haven't checked it out. And let me actually go here to another one. Let see we have Radix Svelte and et cetera So we had best ecosystem integration SvelteLab So SvelteLab is a really wonderful repo for SvelteKit projects You can quickly spin up SvelteKit projects and share it with the world So we can actually go here to SvelteLab It's actually really something awesome to use. You can use this instead of ColdPen, right? So because the standard Svelte REPL doesn't have SvelteKit, you can just open SvelteLab. And you can even import projects from GitHub and etc. It really works beautifully. This site is actually really cool. so we can actually even look how this works like look at this cool thing this rune follows your mouse so i'm also going to link all of this that i mentioned and i'm going to even link this site if you want to examine how it works right so this is the hackswell society site you can actually see in package.json what they're using we already seen that they use pocketbase or database of and etc they use here neoconfetti let's see they use date fns for formatting the data and etc md6x for markdown Pocketbase, I already mentioned that. Oh, look at this, they're using Superforms. How cool is that? And even if we can see, they're using FreeJS for that thing on the front page, so that's really interesting. But yeah, basically, I'm going to leave the link to this so you can explore it yourself. And I think that's it for this video, right? So if you like Svelte, or if you like money, you can participate in Sveltehack 2024. Alright, so I wish you the best of luck, and if you like what you've seen, don't forget to like and subscribe, and I'll catch you in the next one. Peace!